Rickesh Patel

WWF Raw

For the Sega Genesis, Super NES & 32X:

Note: For all mega-move on the Super NES, continue to hold down the top L 
button during the following sequences.  For Sega, always hold both the A and 
B buttons.  In the following instructions, Sega refers to both the Genesis and 
32X.

Bret Hart
Butt Flip-Off the turnbuckle, when your opponent is lying down beneath you, 
climb the turnbuckle...
	For Super NES hit right, Right, Up and B
	For Sega hit Right, Right, Up and release B

Razor Ramon
Back Flip Elbowdrop-Your opponent must be lying down in the ring, in 
range over Razor...
	For Super NES and Sega, hit Left, Left, Right then B(for the Sega 
	release button B)

Shawn Michaels
Super DropKick-When your opponent is  standing in the ring within kicking 
range.
	For Super NES hit Down, R, R and A
	For Sega hit down, R, R, and C

Bam Bam Bigelow
Torpedo-When your opponent is standing in the ring.
	For Super NES hit Up, Down, Left or Right and Y
	For Sega hit Up, Down, Left or Right and release A

Doink
Field Goal Kick-Stand behind your stunned opponent.
	For Super NES hit Left, Left, Left and A
	For Sega hit Left, Left , Left and C

1-2-3 Kid
Turnbuckle to Turnbuckle Jump-When you are on the back turnbuckle.
	For Super NES and Sega, hit Up, Up, Up and A or B

Owen Hart
Whirling Dirvish-When your opponent is standing in the ring.
	For Super NES hit Up, Right, Down and Y
	For Sega hit Up, Right, Down, release B and hold A(drains energy)

Diesel
Caber Toss-When your stunned opponent is facing the large side of the ring, 
and Diesel is standing behind him.
	For Super NES and Sega hit Down, Down, R and B

Yokozuna
Cannonball off the turnbuckle-When you are on one of the turnbuckles and 
your opponent is lying down in the ring.
	For Super NES hit ?

Undertaker
Running Clothesline-When your opponent is lying down in the ring and 
vulnerable to attack...
	For Super NES hit, left, right, right and Y
	For Sega hit left, left, right and B

Luna Vachon
Propeller Splash-When your opponent is lying down in the ring  and Luna is 
positioned above them(north side of the ring)...
	For Super NES and Sega, hit left, down, down, then B(for Sega 	 
release the B)
	
Lex Luger
Super Punch-When your opponent is standing in the ring and in punching 
range...
	For Super NES hit Up, Up, Down and B
	For Sega hit Up, Up, Down and release B

