Forum:  				Section:  Jaguar Games/Tips
Subj :  BSF - Roll our own FAQ
To   :  all				








            I am trying to build a basic FAQ for "Brutal Sports Football
            for the Atari Jaguar" with help from other on-line folks.
            Please post any additions or corrections to this FAQ here,
            or (even better) E-Mail me so I can add to it. If anyone has
            video capture or is a good artist, pictures of the power-ups
            would be very useful for some people.


            Respond to:


            Internet = waynejs@kaiwan.com
            GEnie    = head.trip
            AOL      = headtrip_x
            CIS      = 74214,565


            Thanks!





            This is what I have in version 0.5 - 9/28/94 (CIS seems to have       
       screwed up my formatting):






                               Brutal Sports Football


                                         by


                                      Telegames


                                       for the


                          Atari Jaguar 64-Bit Game Console


                                   FAQ version 0.5






               I have had Brutal Sports Football for 2 days and I like
            it a lot. I wasn't going to buy it because it didn't look
            "64-Bit", and I don't normally like sports games. I broke
            down and bought it when I finished Wolfenstein 3D and was
            going nuts waiting for the "Magical, Wonderful,
            October/November Games Orgy" <grin>.


               Now that I've been playing Brutal Sports Football for a
            little while I actually like it a lot. It reminds me of
            Speedball 1 & 2 for the Atari ST and Amiga - constant
            action, some strategy, and FUN! I wish the people around me
            weren't too snobby or afraid to play video games; it looks
            like a _lot_ of fun for 2 players!


               The only gripe I have about Brutal Sports Football is
            that you can't adjust the music/FX levels (just music
            on/off) and that the manual STINKS. We can't help the music

            thing, but we _can_ make a FAQ to remedy the manual problem.
            So, here we go... and remember what the 'Teacher' says...
            "jaguar Jaguar JAGUAR!"




                                    Playing Tips:


            1. Be sure to use the three 'formations' during play. Press
            the '1' key for "Defense", '2' for "Normal" and '3' for
            "Aggressive".


                "Defense" (#1) allows you to 'pack' your half of the
                field with your players (best for when you are looking
                to hold onto a lead for a win).Use it when the opposing
                team is heading towards your end of the field.


                "Normal" (#2) is the multi-purpose formation. It offers
                defensive & offensive positions, and is pretty
                'normal'.


                "Aggressive" (#3) puts your team in attacking
                formation, pushing towards your opponents goal. It's a
                very useful way to keep the opposing team busy while
                you forge ahead. It also places several teammates near
                the enemy goal so you can pass the ball and 'baffle'
                'em

               * Continually changing formations can really improve your
               scores.

 
            2. Whenever your goalie has the ball - kick it downfield!

 
            3. It usually helps to approach the other team's goal from
            the side. The computer team passes a lot near the goal, and
            passing near their goal seems to outsmart them. Also, you
            can kick towards their goal, and when their goalie catches
            the ball you can score by slamming him into the goal while
            he's holding the ball! It makes him cry <evil grin>.


            4. If you're losing by a wide margin, concentrate on wiping
            out your opponents (GamePro Magazine).

            5. The first player you should eliminate is the goalie. Once
            he's gone, it's a lot easier to score goals (GamePro
            Magazine).





                                      Controls:


            The manual for Brutal Sports Football leaves a lot to be
            desired. Especially for 70 bones! This area of the FAQ will 

            try to outline any controls not mentioned in the manual, and
            elaborate on the ones that _are_ mentioned.


            Locker Room:


            The Locker Room is where you can repair & improve your team
            between league matches. Unfortunately the manual doesn't say
            much about it. Here's some information...


            1. You have 9 team members, but only 7 play in a game. The
            trick is to use your 7 best men. The only exception is #1 -
            he's the goalie so you need to keep him in good shape! When
            you select "Locker Room" from the options after a league
            game, you come to a screen with all you team members in
            treatment chambers. Initially all players are selected, but
            you can use L-R on your joypad to select individual team
            members.


            First, find your best 6 guys besides #1 (your goalie). If a
            guy is standing he's doing pretty good. If he's kneeling
            he's 'hurting'. If he's got a bandage where his head should
            be - it's not his day! You can also tell a players health by
            looking at the red ovals next to his number. The higher the
            red, the better off he is.There's also a green "Life-O-
            Meter" above each players head (or where his head _was_).
            The wider the green "Life-O-Meter", the better the poor mug
            is doing.


            Once you've found your 6 most promising players you need to
            "fix 'em up". Use the L-R on the joypad to select a player
            (he becomes highlighted). Then use the 'B' button (or 'UP')
            on the joypad to close the treatment door. Once the door is
            closed you may select one of the three treatments. The Cross
            means 'Health', the Jagged Line means 'Speed', and the
            Helmet means 'Cranial Reconstruction" (for headless cases).
            One tip: After your first match, the last two players are
            still in perfect health because they haven't played yet. Use
            them in the next match if you need to.


            The best thing to do is fix up your goalie first. Next, work
            your way down the other 6 candidates, giving them a little
            more health at a time until either they're all healthy or
            you run out of money. If you still have money left, or if
            you don't want to use it all on repair, you can make your
            players faster. It's best to start with the goalie.

            While repairing your players you can use the 'A' button on
            the joypad to select a player for the next game. Selected
            players have a red light above them. Be sure to keep your
            goalie in the game!


            Once you're happy with your selections use the L-R on you
            joypad to center the selector (all players are lit). Next





        use 'Down' twice, until you see 'Exit' appear. Press 'B' to
            return to the previous screen.




            Well, that's all I've got so far. Please write me to add to
            this FAQ; I'll mention all contributors. You can reach me
            at:


            Internet = waynejs@kaiwan.com
            GEnie    = head.trip
            AOL      = headtrip_x
            CIS      = 74214,565




            Thanks!


            Wayne

            Did I mention that the manual sucks?


