
Toki Faq/walkthrough (Atari Lynx version)
Copyright 2011
Darrin (forcexdistance)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Introduction:

Toki is a great arcade style platformer for the Atari Lynx system, and 
received good magazine reviews back in its day. The high difficulty, however,
can easily sway your opinion from a game you might have loved to a game you
"love to hate." Stick with it, and you just might find something to like 
about Toki. Like Gordo (from Gordo 106), the main character is a rather 
unsung primate forgotten amidst the Donkey Kong characters designed by 
Nintendo's Shigero Miyamoto. Is Toki too difficult? Arguably yes, with only 
2 continues, challenging level designs, and a lack of free guys to work with. 
Is it impossible? No way. To error may be human, but thankfully in this 
game you are no longer human. It is time put on your "monkey suit" and get
ready for some serious "monkey business" so don't let anyone throw a "monkey
wrench" into your heroic plans. 

Although it is not immediately apparent, you can assign different buttons to
different actions (i.e. toggle A and B). Just hit option 1 at the title 
screen. Basically, one button jumps and the other button shoots. The joypad,
of course, moves Toki and makes him duck. In general, the game involves a
combination of trial/error, patience, memorization, quick reflexes, skill, 
and perhaps even a bit of luck. Remember that there is a time limit in the
game, which adds another means of dispsability to an already challenging game. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stage 1 (Labyrinth of caverns)


Destroy the two green crab-like enemies on the ground. Carefully destroy the
orange monkey jumping towards you. Grab the power-up and dispatch the green
ape-like creature that emerges from the ground. Remember to also shoot up at
the small birds flying over-head in a horizontal formation. After they are 
all dispatched, touch the coins left behind (50 of them earn an extra life).
Walk slowly to the right and dispatch the bird carrying a power-up that flies
above. Next, prepare and dispatch another jumping orange monkey. Next, destroy
another green crab-like creature. With the power-up equipped, shoot the 
stalagmite object and remember to duck the flying "shrapnel" from a safe
distance. Grab the orange and ride the platform down until you get the helmet.
Jump off the platform. Shoot the green bird. Wait for the apish dude to emerge
and walk towards/under you as he nears the orange enemy head also below you.
Carefully jump over both enemies and before you land turn around and shoot
like mad. If your bullets don't hit the enemies hopefully the football helmet
will save you. Use the 16 ton weight to boost yourself to the high ledge. 
Climb the vine and go to the left side of the screen.

Mini-boss

You will see a rather ominous looking square mechanism appear. Simply (and
carefully) shoot upwards at the 4 heads on the left side. Now, walk under it 
to the right and do the same with the 4 heads. Don't worry about hitting your
head on the mechanism as you walk because you will automatically duck safely 
out of its way as you move. Climb the vine and stay to the right. Shoot the
2 monkeys operating the mechanism from the top and the entire boss should fall
down.

Stage 1 (Part 2)

Move left and touch the flame power-up. Dispatch the 2 crabs coming at you as
well as the green bird. Now, go down the green vine until you hear the orange
jumping monkey come at you. Position yourself out of harm's way on the vine
and shoot your flames downward until the orange monkey is dispatched. Now, 
jump left off the vine and line yourself up just left of the narrow waterfall
as you hold the fire button and emit a continuous flame. This should allow the
head-missile to fly into the fire and get destroyed. Your problems are not
over yet. Now, slowly move to the left so the screen scrolls and keep the fire
button pressed. Control the flame with the joypad as needed to destroy the
flying ghost coming from the left of the screen. Now, very carefully shoot
down/left from a safe distance to destroy the pesky stalagmite thing. As
before debris will fly out so make sure you run to the right to avoid it.
Touch the strawberry for points. Shoot the spider from a safe distance while
standing on the ground and avoid the bullets it shoots at you. Also watch 
out for the bullets that come out of it when it is destroyed. Walk to the left
and carefully hop on top of the guy that emerges from the ground a few times
in a row and after the second time touch the powerup in the air as you land. 
Slowly walk left and shoot the jumping orange monkey from a safe distance. 
Now,carefully jump over the pit and make sure you are all the way off the little
falling ledge (but only slight). Make sure to drill the enemy that emerges
just to your left (or at least make sure you jump on its head to dispatch it).
Jump on the first "step" going up/right. Shoot diagonally up/right to destroy
the spider, but watch out for its flying debris (you may even want to jump to
the left to avoid it). Jump to the "next stair" and shoot straight up until
the green bird is destroyed. At the top most "rung" of the "staircase" shoot
diagonal/up at the spider. As per usual, watch out for its debris. Ride the
moving platform and jump to the higher ledge. Shoot up at the green bird.
Grab the super-shoes, climb the vine, and use the 16 ton weight to fly up 
through the gap as you try to destroy the pesky stalagmite on the right
by shooting like crazy to the right as you go up and also as you land on 
the left ledge. Jump to avoid the debris and touch the football helmet
en-route. This part can be tricky if you are not careful. 

Boss

It is possible to defeat the first boss using the helmet if you are fast 
(just walk slightly into the boss so that the front of the helmet is 
touching him and he should go down in seconds). To do this, however, you 
must be relatively quick at dispatching the birds and other enemies that 
stand in your way (try to collect the coins that fall when you shoot straight
up at the swarm of birds overhead). The enemies in front of you can be 
dispatched quickly simply by walking into them. If you don't have the helmet 
by the time you reach the boss, try to stay on the left side of the screen 
and shoot to the right like mad so the bullets hit him or the orange monkeys 
that come at you. Watch out if he decides to move at you.



Stage 2: Lake Neptune

When the level starts, shoot diagonal up at the green bird as it flies to the
right of the screen. After the orange monkey shoots a cannon-ball to the top
of the ramp, move quickly and get to the right-most vine. Climb a bit and aim
left to dispatch the two green birds on the left. Stay on the vine, and shoot
diagonal left towards the group of flying green flies flying overhead. Destroy
them all and from the side of the green vine jump to the ledge on the left. 
From there, jump to the other ledge on the left and grab the flame power-up.
Climb the new vine on the left and control the flame to safely dispatch the
green bird flying on the right. After climbing th vine, jump to the brown
ledge and from there jump to the next brown ledge. Now, simply walk to the
right and hold right and you should land safely on the rocks below. Right as 
you land, shoot diagonally up/right and position yourself so you can dispatch
the bouncing orange monkey. Hopefully you can defeat both the monkey and the
brown bird by doing this. Now, immediately shoot straight up and take out the
swarm of birds that drop coins. Touch the coins. Walk up to the water, and
drop in when you can safely shoot the red fish. Touch the spread power-up and
descend a bit down the side of the rocks and carefully dispatch the yellow
shark that comes from the right (you might want to save the next under-water 
power-up for the mini-boss up ahead, but this is not critical). Also make sure 
to dispatch the green allegator-thing on the right as well. Now, dispatch the 
turtles, little red fish, and the big red fish that come next. Stay low, but 
watch out for any yellow sharks that happen to be above. Go slowly through 
the passage in the rocks and do the same with the next group. Slowly ascend 
the rock wall while facing right and quickly dispatch the yellow shark on the 
right. I don't believe it is worth it to risk losing a guy to get the power-up 
above the water by hopping off of the birds back to get it. Now it is time to 
fight the mini-boss.

Mini-boss:

Hug the right side of the rock formation, and line yourself up so that your
shots are more or less level to his eyes and fire like made as you swim up
and down with him. Be careful of the red fish that jettison outward, and
hopefully your shots will hit many of them in the process. After he flashes
from injury for a time, he should go down with little trouble. 


Level 2 (part 2):

Swim through the little tunnel and grab the coins and fruits in the process. 
Jump out of the water and go to the right edge of the cliff (immediately 
before thewater's entrance) and shoot straight up until the ghost and green 
bird touch your bullet stream and die. If the ghost happens to shoot 
downward before being dispatched, dodge the projectile by walking left. 

Boss 2:


There seems to be a modicum of randomness and unpredictability to this boss
(as with some of the others). From what I can tell, the boss likes to appear
in the same spot of the screen, which makes it easy to start
by getting on the ledge and shooting straight horizontal shots into him. 
After that, I like to try and shoot diagonal/up at him like 
mad so that my bullet stream is just grazing him so that the eyeballs he 
emits fall into my bullet stream and become destroyed (as the boss is 
simultaneously taking hits from my bullet stream as well). The boss will 
teleport to different areas of the screen, so be ready for him and try to 
make enough time to line up with him each time he reappears to a new location.
As usual, when the boss meter depletes the boss should go down.


Level 3: Caverns of fire

You can "bait" the creature that emerges from the right by jumping off the
starting ledge, moving slightly to the right while in the air so that you are
over the lava, and then returning safely back to your ledge. Dispatch the 
enemy with bullets if possible or just let it go back into the ground. Stand
at the edge of your ledge and when the moving platform approaches, step on to
it. It is not that hard since the platform will go through the rock to make
it easier for you. Grab the flame power-up. Jump over the lava to the ground
and stand just to the left of the first vertical lava geyser. You will notice
some ghosts come overhead. Aim up and fire like mad and let the ghosts run 
into your line of fire. If they shoot a projectile downward, just move a bit
to the left to avoid them. Now carefully walk to the right whilst avoiding
the two lava geysers. Go up the ramp and ride the platform down. You will see
a key-guard fly around. You can either walk right, pick up the helmet, and
let him touch your head or you can take your chances fighting him from the
right as he flies around in a counter-clockwise fashion. Grab the key and
with the helmet equipped ride the little platform down and don't get off. Ride
it back up and get back on the left ledge. A white flying monkey will ascend
and come at you. Shoot it like mad (jumping in the air if necessary to hit it
in the air). Like some of the power-ups in the game, I don't see the benefit
in risking death by trying to get the power-up and coin towards the top/right
defended by two lava geysers. Shoot diagonally right/down to dispatch the two
green stalagmites from a distance (they should leave coins instead of debris).

Ride the platform down and shoot the brown ant-eater thing and the green 
stalagmites one at a time from a safe distance. If they disperse debris, 
avoid th projectiles as necessary. Shoot the arachnid from a safe distance 
and avoid both its shots and any bullets that spill out of it after it is 
dispatched. Slowly proceed to the left and dispatch the white ghost who 
comes from the left (I like to jump and shoot horizontal shots at it). I like
to ignore the football helmet in the air and simply shoot the green monster 
that emerges from the ground. Approach the lava geyser to your left until you
can see the spider enemy go up and down the left side of the screen. Dispatch
it from your safe distance. Slowly walk left and shoot the enemies as they 
come from the left. Avoid the lava geyser and ascend the ramp, jump the gap,
and slowly descend the vine until you can dispatch the green bird from above
by firing one bullet at a time. Don't go too far down or you might touch it 
and lose a life. Jump off the vine to the ledge on the right and grab the
clock. Jump back on the vine and from there jump off it and hang left. You
should fall safely on a ledge below. You will notice a platform moving left
and right. You will notice that it will travel under your ledge a bit as it
goes left and reverses to the right. This makes it a bit easier to time 
correctly because you can wait a moment until the platform starts to go back 
to the right a bit before stepping on it. Climb down the vine or fall to the 
right and carefully blast the swarm of green flies with diagonal shots or by
jumping straight up and firing horizontally into them. Ride the platform using
the same strategy as the previous one, except jump off the platform so that
you can grab the powerup and still land safely on the ledge to the left. 

Ride the platform down and wait for the key-holder to start to fly 
counter-clockwise as you go under him as soon as it is safe and jump up and
blast your spread-shots at it. Be careful of any enemy fire and rinse/repeat
as you position yourself safely on the opposite side of the enemy and do 
this until the enemy is dispatched. This enemy in general seems to require 
a fair degree of timing, skill, and also luck. Walk to the right and you will
notice a spider. Drop down when it is safe and clear of spider fire and 
quickly dispatch it (whilst avoiding any of its debris as per usual). Go down
the ramp until you are near the bottom. When the green bird is a safe 
distance to your right, fall of the ramp onto the brown platform. This 
section is very tricky, and I sometimes lose a life here (in fact, sometimes 
I jump off the brown platform and grab the free guy so I at least "break 
even"). 

The next section is where you re-spawn if you die, so it is extremely 
important to dispatch the brown monkey and the green bird which come 
immediately towards you. Immediately when you re-spawn, walk a step to the 
right and simply shoot straight up like mad and let the two enemies touch 
your bullet stream. If you are not careful, you can lose lives like crazy 
here. The next part involves shooting the 2 stalagmites with diagonal 
up/right shots. Their debris should pass over your head. Jump and shoot to 
destroy the next stalagmite and again the debris should be easy to avoid. I 
like to carefully jump over the next stalagmite and not worry about its 
debris. You will see a swinging vine. Wait until the vine swings to the 
right and then jump towards it. You should land safely on the vine as it 
moves towards you. Now, jump off as soon as soon as it is safe to land on 
the LEFT side of the ledge on the right (if you land too far right you might 
hatch the dinosaur egg before you are ready). Shoot the birds overhead and 
they should drop coins. Now, carefully walk to the right until the egg starts
to hatch and then jump over the egg-shell that falls towards you while 
shooting like mad to quickly dispatch the dinosaur with the powered-up 
bullets you should now have after touching the power-up. If you don't kill 
it fast enough it might shoot at you, so be careful (it might help to hide 
behind the bottom "step"). Proceed to the right and you will see another egg.
I like to jump towards it so I land on the dinosaur as the egg hatches 
during my descent onto its head. After the dinosaur is destroyed, you will 
see yet another egg. Walk towards it until it starts to hatch and destroy it 
as you did the first egg. The golden hopping monkey is easy to take out 
simply by jumping straight in the air and shooting horizontally. You will see
more moving vines ahead. Use the same timing (when the vine is at its right)
and jump onto it. Jump off so as to land safely on the blue platform. The 
platform is only temporary, so make sure to jump off it when the next vine
is at its right as per usual and grab it. Now, stay on the vine! Keep firing
to the right as you swing back and forth and dispatch the group of enemies
that come at you. When it is safe, jump off the vine onto solid ground. 

Proceed to another egg. Approach it and shoot the orange bird that flies 
over-head as it will drop a power-up that is useful for the upcoming boss. I
like to refrain from touching it for now (to free up more power-shots for the
boss). Destroy the dinosaur (either by baiting its hatching or anticipating it
as you jump). Leave the power-up, and travel to the right. Dispatch the green
stalagmite one at a time so that you can avoid the debris easier. Destroy the
bird in the air as well. Now, go back and retrieve the power-up that should
be where you left it. Go right and shortly after touching the bananas the
boss will appear. If you lose a life around this area you will respawn in
another very difficult position like before (immediately after respawning, 
shoot diagonally up/right to dispatch the enemies that rain from above, sort 
of like before).

Boss:

Go to the left-most side of the screen. Shoot powered-up shots like mad into 
the boss while standing on the ground. With the power-up the boss should 
crumble fairly fast. If the boss shoots the "B-U-R-P" letters at you jump 
straight up and shoot horizontally to destroy the letters that come from his 
mouth (the "B" is particularly dangerous). It gets even more difficult to
avoid his attacks if he decides to move closer to you. 

Level 4: Ice caverns

Walk to the right until the orange bird comes overhead. Dispatch it and grab
the flame power-up. After defeating the green ground enemy move to the right
promptly. Jump on EACH falling ice block in rapid succession, but do not jump
on the block with the powerup on it. Near the end, jump over the green enemy
without destroying it and get on the first "stair-step." Walk to the right as
far as you can and shoot the flame-breath straight up. Although it looks like
a rather ominous situation, the group of orange monkeys should all be 
dispatched upon touching the fire-stream. Next, get to the top of the
staircase and turn around (don't jump to the higher ledge on the left yet).
Control your flame using the up/down buttons so as to dispatch all of the 
green flying insects. Now get on the higher ledge. When it is safe to do so,
rapidly jump between the ice blocks until it is safe to jump on the high
ledge with the green ground enemies (and dispatch them). If you stand on the
fixed ledge on the right you can see where the two ground crawlers are 
positioned so you can get the timing right.

Ride the ice block to the top, and carefully defeat the flying ghost that
comes from the right. Grab the flame and proceed. When it is safe, drop down
to the lower ground and dispatch the penguin and green grounders. Proceed.
Grab the shoes and shoot your flame straight up into the air (don't jump) and
dispatch the group of birds flying overhead and grab their coins. Be careful
of the green bird also flying nearby and destroy it. You will next see (and
hear) a jumping orange monkey come. Keep a safe distance, and he should be
easy enough to dispatch. You will see a head-missile poised to strike from
the left to the right. I like to fall of the ledge above him and IMMEDIATELY
turn around to land on its head taking it out. Walk right and bait the green
bird to come. Move to the left a bit and shoot diagonally/up/right (parallel 
with the ramp) and the green bird will hopefully fly into your bullets. I like
to dispatch the next head-missile as before, but be weary of the enemies 
nearby (if you get stuck on the wall just jump straight up to safer ground).
When safe, destroy the penguins and green grounders as per usual. Now, walk
right and keep walking through the helmet power-up and walk till you the ledge
blocks your way. While doing this, the flying white monkey should have flew
right onto your helmet and became immediately destroyed. Next you will see an
ice platform with a head-missile below it. Step on the platform and 
immediately turn around and shoot towards the head-missile as you ride it
down. You will see a new enemy down below. Shoot horizonal shots from the
ground towards him (and the penguin and ground-crawler for that matter) and 
when you see (and hear) his fire blast jump straight up. Rinse and repeat.

Slowly proceed left and carefully dispatch the monkeys and ghosts that come
at you (use either jumping shots or slanted ones). Try to go slow and nail
them one at a time if possible. When safe, fall down and destroy the green
grounder. Grab the key and the helmet. When safe, go in the water and slowly
proceed right destroying the red fish and the yellow shark. When you see the
octopus, line yourself up so that your bullets cancel out his middle bullets
that he shoots at you in a spread-like fashion. Keep shooting like mad and
your bullets will hopefully dispatch it soon. Go through the gap and do the
same with the other octopus that appears on the lower right of the screen.
Grab the power shot and swim up till you get to solid ground. Immediately
move right and try to walk quickly under the green insects. The boss will
appear and hopefully the green insects should disappear as the big fight
starts. 

Boss:

The crystal elephant can be tricky. It takes memorization and timing skills.
When the boss appears, shoot horizontal shots like made from the ground level.
He will shoot a tusk that moves counter-clockwise over your head. The tusk
will return to his moutn, so time your jump so that you clear the tusk on its
return visit. Soon after the tusk comes back to him he will extend his trunk
at you. Jump straight up (and control your landing so as to avoid landing on
his trunk on the way down). Don't move to the left too much too soon, as you
will have to repeat this 2 more times. In other words, carefully and slowly
jump around his trunk each of the 3 times he extends it. It is hard to find
time to drill him with bullets during all this defensive maneuvering, so it 
takes some patience as you shoot a bit here and there. With the power-shot, 
however, the elephant will go down much more quickly. Rinse and repeat till he
is defeated.

Level 5: Dark jungle

Right when the level starts jump and kill the big red bird that flies at you.
If you touch the drumstick that falls out of it you can score additional
points. Proceed. From a safe distance, dispatch the green iguana and watch
out for his tongue. Proceed and destroy the brown spiky stalagmite, being
careful of its debris as per usual. Carefully walk to the right and take out
the other stalagmites, birds, and also the ghost. Grab the orange and walk
slow (while shooting). A group of high jumping red flower enemies will make
their small-screen debut. Shoot them like mad, and carefully backtrack if you
need to. When backtracking, be weary of any pits you may need to jump back
over (if you manage your way back this far the red enemies should fall in the
pit on their own accord). Proceed to the right. Grab the bananas and 
dispatch the brown ant-eater. Continue slowly and you will notice a brown seed
in the tree. When you are close enough it will drop and sprout into this odd
purple flower creature. Jump horizontally like mad from the ground and both
he and the seeds he disperses should all be destroyed. Walk to the edge of the
pit and destroy the green iguana as well as the spider from a safe distance.
Jump the gap and walk to the edge of the next one. Dispatch the green iguana.
Next, I like to jump to the right and return back to my ledge so as to "bait"
the next brown seed into falling and growing another purple flower monster.
From your ledge you may find you can't hit the flower from the ground, so 
dispatch the seeds and carefully jump/shoot the flower's main body to take it
out. Or, if you prefer, you can get closer to the flower and fight it that 
way (just watch out for the big red bird and high-jumpers you may have to 
fight at the same time). Regardless of what method you use, it may help to
backtrack over the pit as the big red bird and high-jumpers come at you. 
Dispatch the big red bird with jump-shots and hopefully the red high jumpers
will fall into the pit like before. Proceed right with caution and carefully
destroy the brown stalagmites, red high-jumpers, and big red birds as before,
and backtrack over pits if necessary.

Walk along the purple wall of the building. Jump towards the swinging vine
when it is on the right, and immediately as you grab the vine jump back off
to the left, as a flock of coin-birds will fly overhead. Dispatch them and
grab the coins. Jump on the green ape's head to destroy it and hop off its
head to grab the flame power-up. Carefully go right and destroy the ghost and
the swarm of green insects by controlling the angle of your flame from the
ground. I like to destroy the green birds and forget about trying to get the
risky jump-shoes above the second green bird (which are used to get a free
guy later). Use the 16 ton weight to squeeze your way through the gap above
and land on the left side. Carefully proceed and dispatch the two green birds.
If you didn't bother grabbing the jump-shoes, just walk under the goodies 
above. Before climbing the green vine, be cautious of the two red crabs that
are climbing it. Dispatch them safely. Ascend the vine and carefully jump on
the ledges as the "fuzzbusters" (Castevania 3 term for similar enemies) circle
clockwise slowly around. Go up the next vine and drop to the right of the
green ledge when the "fuzzbuster" is out of harm's way (grab the spread shot
before-hand if you are feeling adventurous). Grab the powerups below if you
wish and ascend to the top "stair" of the green ledges on the left. Carefully
dispatch the spider taking great care not to get hit by its debris upon 
dispatch. Use the vine and 16 ton weight and work your way to the top of the 
complex. Carefully avoid/dispatch enemies until you make your way to the room
with statues in the background.

Starting from the gray ledge before the moving platforms, jump towards the 
first as soon as you see it go off the bottom of the screen. It should catch
up to you by the time you reach it. As soon as you make the landing, carefully
jump to the next platform, and from there immediately jump to the third. Now,
stay on the third until you touch the power-shot on your descent and right
when you grab it jump to the right solid ground. You guessed it, boss time.

Boss 5:

I think this is one of the toughest parts in the game. The boss is a cool one,
but also a frustrating one. Your power-shots you found just earlier have a
time limit, so it might help to focus on offense as much as possible while
also staying alive. In general, you want to hit it in the heart while avoiding
the "hand" that goes up/down towards you. In addition, you want to shoot at
the moving feet to make them walk backwards when they get relatively close.
All this is easier said than done. In general, you want to keep the moving
feet as far to the right as possible by the time the fist goes off the left 
side of the screen to the left. You are going to need this much space to make
sure you can maintain your safety when the fist comes back from the left.
maintain your safety when the fist comes back on the screen from the left. 

Stage 6: Golden palace

You will immediately see an armored knight. Shoot them as normal but make sure
to jump the blast waves. Next you will see moving pillars that go up/down. 
Watch how they bounce off the ground before ascending, and position yourself
between the 1st and 2nd columns (use the brown pillar in the background to aid
with this task). Do the same with the 2nd and 3rd columns but as soon as you 
are safe between them shoot like mad as enemies will approach from the right.
Work your way between the 3rd and 4th. Work your way between the 4th and the 
5th column and again shoot as the enemies approach from the right. Proceed 
slowly to the right and dispatch the jumping monkey. Keep walking and when
you hear the "whoosh" noise shoot like mad as the white flying monkey flies
at your bullet stream (hopefully being dispatched in the process). Carefully
avoid the fire blast from the floor and the moving column on the ceiling and
drop down to the next "level" of the complex. Duck and shoot the knights that
come at you. Their shots should pass safely below you.

Quickly walk past the next two fire blasts from the floor and if you happen
to hear a "gunshot" jump immediately to the right over the shot and make sure
to land a safe distance from the large monkey head enemy. Shoot like made and
if you hear his gun-shot jump straight up. Shoot as much as possible to the
right until he is dispatched. Slowly proceed to the right and try to defeat
the knights one at a time. Duck and jump as appropriate to avoid their shots.
Next you will come to a "mine-cart" race section. 

Jump on the cart and it will start moving rapidly to the right. Touch the 
items if you are feeling adventurous. You will notice that when you jump 
Toki moves with inertia and keeps going to the right more or less on his own.
Be aware of this, and when the cart is positioned about two cart-lengths 
behind the "end of the line" jump (just a short distance from that last 
yellow column). When Toki is in the air guide him so that he lands safely on 
the next mine cart. Be subtle with your movements and let inertia do most of 
the work. The next part might remind you of Battletoads. As you are riding 
the second mine cart jump the first set of spikes, duck the next set, and 
then jump the third set. Jump off just before reaching the "end of the line." 
Use subtlety as you help guide Toki's landing on solid ground. Try to land 
near the left edge of the landing, as armored knights will be approaching. 
Shoot them asap and jump if necessary to take them out. The third mine cart 
ride consists of the following: duck, jump, duck, and jump. Jump again near 
the very end of the line, and use subtlety to guide Toki to the fourth mine 
cart (also hold right while you are in the air as necessary). Duck the next 
few sets of spikes, and as per usual use caution if you are tempted to grab 
some of the items above. Jump off the cart when it is at the "end of the 
line" and hold right to quickly bring Toki against the solid wall. Quickly 
slide down and blast the knights on the right. If they shoot, try to avoid 
their shots as best you can. Slowly walk to the right and dispatch the white 
monkey as soon as you hear him come (just use ground shots). Dispatch the 
brown bird for more time. 

Final boss:

Personally, I think this dude is a bit easier than some of the others. That
is not to say he is easy, though. I like to position Toki so that he is
standing about between the statue's eye and ear (on the left half of the 
screen). This also translates to between the right eye and the right ear from
the statue's point of view. Shoot like mad until he shoots two projectiles 
at you (they will move in a clockwise fashion). Jump them so that
you land at about the same spot (this time on the other side of the statue's 
face). Try to get a shot or two in as you land. Don't waste too much time, 
cuz when you land you want to run back to your starting position and jump the
projectiles again as before. Rinse and repeat until the boss changes to his 
second form.

Final boss (second form):

Thankfully, I think this form is easier. Move to the left-most side of the 
screen. You will notice his hand animate as if he were planning something.
When you see the hand get near you, jump straight up (while hugging the
left side of the screen). Next, you will notice his head animate in a similar
way as the hand. As before, wait until the head moves approaches you, and 
then carefully jump straight up (while hugging the side of the screen). Now 
is your opportunity to jump about 2-3 times straight up in the air as you 
blast bullets into his flashing red spot. Rinse and repeat until defeated.

Congratulations! You just beat a very difficult game. The ending is nothing
special, but beating the game is its own reward. Fireworks and fanfare is only
an afterthought, right? At any rate, you get to see Toki turn back into a
human and meet his Jane. Of course, if Jane turned into an ape instead, the 
ending would have still been a happy one, since they would both be apes, 
right? You can be the judge of that!!

Take care, and thanks for reading.

Darrin (forceXdistance)




 




