Star Wars Arcade

Near the end there are some cheats, but
first there's a group of general hints

Use proton torpedoes as much as you want.
They recharge themselves after time, so
use them!!

Use the cockpit view.  The radar is a big
help.

On the radar screen, when you see TIEs behind
you, slow down.  They will fly right into your
sights.  Well, close, anyway.

In order for proton torpedoes to hit the
enemy fighter, they must be in the screen.

Remember to wait for the proton torpedoes 
to lock on before firing.  The fighters that
are locked on to have a white box around them.

USE TWO PLAYER MODE!!!!!

And here's an overview of each level:

32X mode's more fun.  You don't meet
instant death in the second level.

32X Mode

Level 1
Pretty simple, just shoot down enemy 
fighters.  They don't shoot back.  

Level 2
Same as level 1, but there are the Super Star
Destroyers too.  Avoid their blasts, it takes
about three hits to get all the way through
your shields.

Level 3
Same a level 1, except these guys shoot back.

Level 4
Now it gets interesting.  At the start of the 
level, you're approching the Death Star.  Three
enemy fighters will come at you, just hold down
to tag them.  When you first reach the surface,
turn hard left or right to get away from the guns.
You will see Darth Vader's TIE with two TIE's
behind him.  Get rid of the two TIEs. (Darth Vader's
TIE is invincible) After you've turned 180 degrees,
go a little farther and you will reach a line of big 
blocks sticking out of the surface.  Follow those 
whichever way you wish.  Shoot the towers with proton
torpedoes,and sometimes you get an extra shield.

Level 5
This level's a major pain.  The best strategy is to
memorize the locations of all the bomb thingies and 
exterminate them before you get there.  Go slowly,
it's easier to kill all the guns before you get there.

Level 6
Congradulations.  You got by the 2nd most anoying level.
This level's like the first and third, only tougher.
This time, avoid your enemies shots.

Level 7
This level's like the 2nd, only tougher.  Avoid the
Super Star Destroyrers at all costs.

Level 8
This level's like number five, only MUCH longer and
MUCH more difficult.  Use the same tactics as in #5.
When you get to the thing in the middle, choose the 
left fork.  You can get more of the bomb thingies.
For practice, it's just like #2 on the Arcade mode.
This level is the biggest reason to use a gunner.

Arcade

Level 1
This level's just like #2 in 32X mode.

Level 2
This level's just like #8 in 32X mode.

Level 3
This level's just like #4 in 32X mode.

Level 4
This level's just like #5 in 32X mode.

Ahh, now for the cheats.

Piano Mode: (Sound test) Pause the Game,
        then tap Up, Right, Left, A, Down,
        Up.  This will reset the game when you're 
        done, so don't use it in the middle of 
        level 8.
Timer Reset: Pause the game, then tap Left,
        Down, A, C, Down, Up.
Timer Stop: Down, B, B, Up, Right, Left

With the timer codes, you should hear a weird
noise if you did them right.

If you find any new ones, E-mail me at 75457,2633
in CompuServe, or nick@crl1.crl.com on the internet.

Do what ever you want with this file, as long as
you tell me first, and when you do, give me credit
for it.

Happy Gaming!! =)

Nick Wallingford
February 17, 1995





