Knuckles' Chaotix
By wdg8
V1.01


Index
1.Story
2.Controls
3.Characters
4.Walkthrough
5.Bonus Ring
6.Special Stage
7.Two Player
8.Items


1.Story

Tomorrow's the big opening day for Carnival Island, a huge amusement resort
with the latest in high-tech rides and games. As guardian of the island, it's
Knuckles' job to make sure nothing goes wrong before the grand event.

Unfortunately, the evil Dr. Robotnik has other plans. He needs fuel for his
latest diabolical device, and the Power Emerald that supplies electricity to
the entire island fits the bill perfectly. His awful new invention, the Combi
Confiner, should help him get rid of that annoying echidna and his friends.

When Knuckles returns from patrolling the far end of the island, he discovers
that Dr. Robotnik has imprisoned all of his friends-Espio the Chameleon,
Mighty the Armadillo, Vector the Crocodile and Charmy Bee. After he chases
the Doctor off, Knuckles discovers that he can rescue one friend at a time by
using Ring Power... only the power that sparks between the rings holds the
two partners together like a magical rubber band. Never held back for long,
Knuckles finds that with a little teamwork, he can use the stretching and
snapping action of the Ring Power to double-even triple-the partners' speed.

And they need all the speed they can get. As Dr. Robotnik drains the power
from Carnival Island, everything on the island begins to break down! Robotnik
must be stopped, or by tomorrow morning-the morning of Carnival Island's big
opening day-the grand amusement park will lie in ruins!


2.Controls
Move: D-pad (Duh!)
Jump: C
Stop your partner: B
Pick up your partner and through him/her: B
Call your partner to stand in the same spot you are: A (cost 10 rings)
Pause: Start (What else)
Super Spin: Hold down when running
Spin Dash: Hold down and press C (Charmy, Heavy, and Bomb can't use this
Snap Up: If your partner is on a platform above you, hold down until the band
         turns red (One player only)
Forward Snap: Press and hold B then hold left or right, when the chain turns
              red, release B (One player only)

3.Characters

Knuckles
Guardian of the Floating Island.  Can glide by holding C after jumping and
can climb by gliding into a wall.

Vector
Loves "jammin". Can get a power boost by pressing C in midair and climb just
like knuckles.

Mighty
He's Knuckles' best friend. Can kick off a wall by pressing C.

Charmy
Likes flowers and can fly by pressing C.

Espio
Has a bad temper.  Can run along walls and ceilings by holding C.

Heavy and Bomb
These two are characters that you get if you mess-up when playing the Combi
Confiner. They have no special abilities.


4.Walkthrough

I recommend using Knuckles for all levels.

4a.Opening

#1-This part is easy. Just go straight until you reach Dr. Robotnik. He'll
   give you Espio as a partner.
#2-Just press start to skip this one.
#3-Get the UP item if you want to try it out.  Now go straight. When you
   reach the door, you need to have Espio stand on his switch and you stand
   on yours. Use B to do so. Repeat again in the next room like this one.
#4-Do the trick above again. If you use the forward snap you can pass the
   next section very quickly. Go on, you shouldn't have any problems.
#5-Not much to say here, except get as many rings as you can. Don't miss the
   UP, it will let you get the 10 above. Shortly after this you can climb
   the left wall for 2X10.
#6-This is a small one. Just make sure you get the big ring over the clear
   sign.


4b.Botanic Base

Level #1: Try not to fall down the first pit. Be sure to get the METAL RING.
          If you lose the first, there is a second METAL RING next to the
          red spring.  After this be sure to get the SHOE and 10 on the 
          ledge in the upper right corner. After this look out for the 2X10
          on the upper left edge, after you go high up. -- Avg. ring amount
          is 125-135.

Level #2: Be sure to get the METAL RING just after you turn around. Just
          before the springs is an UP, after is a SHEILD. If you got the UP,
          you can get lots of other power ups in the next area, including a
          SWITCH. After the first elevator you can get a 10 by going to the
          left. Keep going left until you get to the second elevator.  At
          the bottom you'll get a SHOE. 120-130

Level #3: After the turnaround, go down to get the 10 and use the spring to
          jump up high and get a 10. After going down stay to the left. Get
          the UP soon after the first elevator. 110-125

Level #4: From start, go up as high as you can. Here you'll find a warping
          door with lots of 10 inside. 150-200

Level #5: Boss: Hit the boss when the electricity around him disappears.


4c.Speed Slider

Level #1: To the left of first spring you'll see a CHANGE. To the left is a
          BONUS RING. This is a very short level. 60-75

Level #2: At the first spring, hold right along the right wall. You'll find a
          shield. At the first elevator go right and you'll find a BONUS 
          RING. Later you'll go very high up then go to the left. Go down
          very far and you'll find a BONUS RING. After that go right and
          follow the path. You'll go around the area you were just in. When
          you get to the top if you're at on the highest ledge, throw your
          partner up. 75-125

Level #3: Not much to say about this level; Speed Slider stages have less
          hidden things. 100-125

Level #4: At about 2 minutes, try climbing high and going left. You'll
          find a BONUS RING. Go down to find the CLEAR sign. 110-115

Level #5: Boss: Just hit the big blue ball.


4d.Amazing Arena (To finish these levels you must turn on a clock)

Level #1: Not much to say about this level. After about 4 minutes of
          playing there will be a fake wall on the right wall when going up.
          When you get to the boss just toss your partner at the head.
          100-125

Level #2: Don't take the second warp pad. Instead get the BONUS RING to the
          left. Same strategy for the boss. 100-110

Level #3: Sorry, nothing to say here. 100-110

Level #4: Use Charmy for this level. 75-100

Level #5: Boss: Throw your partner at him while avoiding the enemies.


4e.Marina Madness

Level #1: You'll find a BONUS RING if you stick to the left walls, then get
          a shield on the opposite wall. Go down and get the 10 to the
          left. Look for the BONUS RING on the left after you make the ship
          lower. After going up, look on the right wall for a METAL RING
          and SHOE. Go left and up then right and up. Look up at the first
          big drop to find a 2X10 and a DOWN. 120-130

Level #2: Go left and get the SHIELD and 10. There are some METAL RINGS
          you'll easily find.  Later you'll find a 10 and a SHOE on a
          ledge on the upper left about 1.5 minutes into the level. There
          are 2X10 to the left. After moving the ship, go left on the
          bottom to get a BONUS RING. 150-170

Level #3: There doesn't appear to be anything hidden in this level? 75-100

Level #4: Be sure not to get the UP about one minute into the level; you
          can't get the 10 and CHANGE if you do. There is an UP just after
          the first UP, so if your partner got the first while you got the
          10, now's your chance to get another. 80-110

Level #5: Boss: Wait until he comes out of his shield then hit him.  I
          recommend you do so by throwing your partner.

4f.Techno Tower

Level #1: When you flip the switch, go down and left. Look for the BONUS RING
          on the left after going up. If you miss it, just go left to the
          switch and try again. Go up and get the 10 hidden behind the
          Robotnik picture. Go up and get another 10 hidden behind the
          Robotnik picture. At the top of the springs throw your partner up
          to continue, and get the 10 hidden behind the Robotnik picture.
          Go left and you'll soon find a BONUS RING. 110-125

Level #2: Don't go behind the first Dr. Robotnik, it's a DOWN. Go down when
          you reach the first switch. You'll find lots of items here. 100-110

Level #3: Look behind both of Robotnik pictures. Above the first switch is a
          BONUS RING. Below it are items. 125-140

Level #4: To the right of the switch is a BONUS RING. Below it are more
          items.

Level #5: Boss: Hit the red ball. You can throw your partner to hit him
          without getting hurt.

4g. Metal Sonic
Try to get the roulette to land on the X. If it lands on 1, 2, 3, or 4, a
trap will appear. After hitting the X 4 times you move on.

4h. Red Metal Sonic
Part 1: Hit his left arm.
Part 2: When his hand drops hit it, but don't let it drop on you.
Part 3: Hit him when his laser is charging. When he fires, don't jump.

5.Bonus Ring

These are rings that are hidden throughout the levels. If you have 20 or
more rings they will appear. In them you are in a free-fall. You slowly
lose rings and there are items to get, which include the following:

Exit
10 Rings
500 Points
Down (does nothing)
Red spring
Yellow spring

6.Special Ring

At the end of the level, there are rings that appear after you get 50
rings. The more rings you have, the more time you get to complete the
special level. In the level, you need to collect blue spheres without
falling through a hole or letting time run out. Avoid the spikes and
blades. When you touch them you lose rings and time. There are two parts
each with a set number of spheres to collect. If you collect all 6 rings
you'll get a better ending. To get them easier just set the saving on
manual when you start the game and reset the game if you fail.


7.Two Player

This is the same as one player except player two controls your partner.
I don't recommend in playing this.  If your partner touches an enemy,
you lose all your rings instead of just one.


8.Items

10 - 10 rings
UP - makes you big
DOWN - makes you small
CHANGE - you control your partner
METAL RING - if you get hit, all of your rings stay together as one
             big one
SHIELD - Lets you get hit once without losing rings


Credits

Sega created the game, story, characters and the levels.

I have previously provided an email address to obtain permission
should anyone wish to repost this guide or if there are any questions,
but excessive spam has forced me to remove it.

This document is for personal use only. It may not be posted anywhere
except on GameFAQs. 
