12345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567890



Dirty Larry: Renegade Cop (Atari Lynx) FAQ by Darrin Albert


This game involves minimizing hits (or avoiding hits if possible) and keeping 
the health meter as high as possible. Offense powerups can help in this goal.
It is important to weigh the costs and benefits of saving ammo, maintaining
health in various situations. The game has a total of 10 stages, listed below, 
with a description of how to dispatch the DIFFERENT kinds of enemies that make
a NEW appearance in each. In general, you want to keep your health more or
 less at maximum and your bullets above 80 (as much as possible, anyway). Also,
 it appears that in general if you make smaller steps towards the right of the 
levels you can sometimes 'bait' enemies to come sooner and/or one at a time to
make dispatching an easier affair.


Stage 1: City streets 


gun-man: Use 2 bullets to dispatch (or one shot-gun blast). Sometimes you can 
fire a bullet a bit ahead of time and have time to jump his shots. It is 
usually a good idea to take these guys out first.

chain-lady: I like to duck and punch repeatedy to save ammo and take the hit
or two in the process. And they say chivalry is dead!!

cycle-rider: Jump over him and shoot him a total of 4 times. His bike may not
be the world's fastest Indian, but it could be the world's 'choppiest chopper'.

fire-guy: Shoot once and quickly before he touches you. I think he must be a
spokesman for the 'burn-outs eventually burn-up' campaign!


Stage 2: Subway


baseball fury reject: shoot once or twice depending on health or ammo reserve
and finish with fists quickly. Sometimes you can get him to go from side to
side around you and punch him carefully before he treats your neck like a
T-ball post and your head like the ball. 


Stage 3: Hotel floor 1


Muscle thug with red shirt: These guys share the same fashion sense as the
thugs in Ninja Gaiden. There must be something ominous about a blood-red shirt. 
Anyway,Use fists and save ammo when possible. This may be one of the most
important things to know in the entire game. Just punch and walk through him
until he attacks and misses. Rinse and repeat. With luck, this can help you
amass 99 bullets and maintain a high level of health. With practice, this
technique will hopefully work it's way into muscle memory.



Stage 4: Hotel floor 2


reggae dude: duck his bullets and shoot back with the machine gun, shot-gun,
or the pistol.



Stage 5: Hotel floor 3

crime-boss: use machine gun and dispatch quickly. It might help to jump
his low shot when possible.



Stage 6: City Streets

Rinse and repeat.



Stage 7: Subway

Rinse and repeat.



Stage 8: Warehouse

grenade throwing scientists: Use gun if there are other enemies also present
on screen.If only one of them is on-screen, get in his face and use fists on
him repeatedly and his grenades will hopefully miss you. He may move around
on each side of you in a similar way asthe muscle-thugs with red shirts.
You may have to jump over his first grenade as soon as they come on screen.
These are some of the more dangerous enemies in the game. Use caution
 when dispatching them.




Stage 9: Sewer system

electric scientist: This guy is tough, and can be a bit cheap if you let him
get you in a viscious cycle. I like to make a mental note of when/where you
first see his electricity on the right side of the screen. I get as close
as I can to his charge. When you duck, this triggers him to slide across the
floor toward you. Jump over him as he slides, and open fire when he 
re-materializes. Be easy on the trigger finger with the machine gun, as 
it is easy to waste ammo by wasting bullets after the enemy is dispatched.



Stage 10: Courtroom

dirty-cops: I like to use grenades on them, and save the shot-gun blasts for
the end boss.Sometimes you can dispatch several of them with a single grenade!
You want to save as much health as possible for the end boss, so dispatch
carefully.

judge Smite: I like to walk right until you can see him on the screen, and
it might help to duck the stray hammers that fly towards you in the process.
When you see him, walk left as much as possible. Duck his hammer and shoot
about 2-3 shot-gun blasts towards him. When he causes an earthquake, jump in
the air to minimize damage until you can safely duck his hammer attack again
and rinse/repeat. With skill and a bit of luck, he will go down. Now sit back
and watch the drama of how Judge Smite himself was involved in the crime ring.
The game ends with Dirty Larry polishing his gun with the city skyline
 looming in the background. 

 










