Space Ace: The official CD-I cheat tips


Space Ace: The story so far...
Earth is being attacked by the evil commander Borf. Equipped with his 
powerful weapon, the Infanto Ray, Borf plans to transform the Earth 
inhabitants into infants and invade the planet. Space Ace, defender of 
truth, justice and the planet Earth, and his girlfriend Kimberly, resolve 
to stop Borf, but as they approach Borf's space station, Ace is hit by the 
Infanto Ray and reduced to Dexter, his weak alter ego, while Kimberly is 
kidnapped by the alien. Struggle with Dexter to regain his courage, 
rescue Kimberly, destroy the Infanto Ray and defeat the evil Borf. But 
watch out! Traps, dangers and deadly monsters await you as you travel 
throughout the galaxy, chasing Borf from space station to planet and back 
again! 

BE VALIANT SPACE WARRIOR THE FATE OF EARTH IS IN YOUR 
HANDS!

Basic controls

Starting the game
After starting the program the demonstration mode will automatically 
begin. The demo runs for a few minutes, then at the end a message 
invites the player to 'press any button to play'. If no action takes place, 
the demo will start all over again. To start the game, simply press either 
action button on your controller, whilst the demonstration mode is 
running, or when the 'press any button to play' screen is displayed The 
game has started when the player score screen appears. This screen 
shows your score and the number of lives you have left. The first scene 
will then load automatically. 

Playing Space Ace
You do not directly control all of Ace's actions but you control his 
reactions to the events that happen around him. You must decide in 
which direction Ace should move on the screen and when. To finish a 
scene successfully, move the joystick in the direction of one of the 
flashing areas to escape from danger. Timing is critical. All scenes require 
more than one move. Don't be surprised when you see Ace in one scene 
and Dexter in another. Ace has been hit by the Infanto Ray and he suffers 
an 'infantilisation' which turns him into Dexter. You always begin a new 
level as Dexter. As soon as the word 'Energize' appears on the screen, 
you can press any button on your controller to change him into Ace. 
However this change is only temporarily. At the end of each level, he
always changes back into Dexter.

Gameplay
Ace's movements are controlled by the joystick on your controller. You 
may move Ace up, down, right or left. To use his laser gun, press either  
action button on your controller. Ending the game. At the beginning of 
each game, you have 3 lives. The game will end when you lose all your 
lives or when you have completed all the scenes. To exit the program, 
activate the 'No' hotspot on the 'Continue?' or 'Play   again?' screen. 
Pausing the game. You can pause the game by pressing an action button 
when the score screen appears. If you press a button again, the program 
asks if you   want to continue. Pressing 'yes' continues the game, 
pressing 'no' exits the program. Hall of Fame. The six highest scores may 
be stored on the player. When the game is over, you can store your name 
and points if your score is higher than or   matches one of the top six 
scores stored already. Program structure. Machine induced demo. By 
leaving the MAIN MENU on the screen for a few minutes, a self 
perpetuating tour will begin to cycle on screen. It consists of a mixture  of 
slides of game screens. This screen display will act as a screen saver, 
shifting images   continually in order until an action button is pressed. 
This mode is accompanied by music and audio.

Routes to success..
At the beginning of the game, you have 3 lives. If you make a wrong 
move whilst playing you loose a life and go back to the beginning of the 
level. The game will end when you lose all your lives or when you have 
finished all levels. At the end of each successfully completed level you 
are awarded points. 

There are a number of different paths that can be taken when playing the 
game. Throughout the game, every path can be played in 4 different 
ways: Each path is described twice either as Little Dexter (Infanto Ray 
victim) or as Ace (the game hero). Whether going down the Little Dexter 
route or the Ace route there is also a mirror image version of the same 
sequence were the game actions are simply reversed. This means that 
instead of moving right you move left and instead of moving left you 
move right. Up still remains up and down remains down.

Every level starts off with Dexter. For most levels, at some point during 
play the option 'ENERGISE' appears. On pressing an action button just 
before the 'ENERGISE' word appears, Dexter is then changed back into 
Ace. Extra points can be gained by choosing the more difficult Ace route 
which is harder to complete with more challenges. The user just has to 
complete TWO levels before being awarded an extra life. Staying as 
Dexter throughout a level is only easy because it takes less time to 
complete the level. Playing as Dexter throughout is still time critical and 
you still have to make the right moves but an extra life is awarded only 
after completing THREE levels.

LEVEL 1

Dexter Route
Kimberly is teleported to Borf's ship. Borf appears and shoots at you. You 
see a yellow light behind the rock. Jump to the right. Dexter jumps to the 
left automatically. Then the rock lights up yellow. Jump to the right 
again. Three spaceships come out of Borf's ship. In the middle of the 
screen a rock lights up yellow. Go left. Then the spaceship lights up. Go 
left again. When you see 'ENERGIZE' on the screen you can do one of 
two things; If you move an action button you will change into SPACE 
ACE (see below). If you don't press an action button you stay as little 
Dexter. When you see the robots, go to the right. Move the controller 
three times to the left to allow Dexter to run away from the robots. Your 
spaceship lights up. Jump to the left once and you will leave in your 
spaceship.

Space Ace Route
Move on the action button when you see 'ENERGIZE' on your screen. 
You will change into ACE. Press an action button again to shoot the 
robot that attacks you. The rock on the right will blink yellow. Jump to 
the right.

Then the rock on the left lights up yellow. Jump to the left. The rock on 
the right will light up green. Go to the right. Your gun lights up blue. 
Press an action button and two ships will be destroyed. Go to the left. 
Your spaceship will light up blue. Go to the left once more.

LEVEL 2

Dexter Route
You are flying through an asteroids field and Kimberly shouts at you. 
You see a wall looming in front of you. Move your joystick up. The 
spaceship makes a turn to the right (automatically) and then you see 
another wall. Go to the right. When you arrive at the intersection you 
can go up for the Ace route (see below) or down to carry on as Dexter.  Go 
right. At the next wall go up. You will land automatically.

Space Ace Route
Go up at the intersection. A big green ball emerges in front of the ship. 
Shoot at it when it lights up yellow by pressing the action button. Now 
you're flying up. Go right when you see a wall above you. Shoot at the 
green ball that appears by pressing the action button. You will see a wall 
in front of you. Move your joystick down. Shoot the last green ball that 
appears in front of the ship again by pressing the action button. Your 
spaceship will then automatically land.
Level 2 mirror
Right = left and left = right.

LEVEL 3

Dexter route
If Dexter's spaceship lands on the right side of the screen and jumps to 
the right and then turns to the left, you are in level 3, otherwise you are 
in level 3 mirrored sequence.

Move your joystick to the left. You arrive at a corner. Turn right. You see 
a yellow light blinking in front of you. Move your joystick up. 'Energize' 
appears on your screen. If you move an action button you will change 
into Ace and take the Ace route (see below). If you move the joystick to 
the left you stay as Dexter and keep running. Go right at the next corner 
(you can see a yellow light blinking there). Again you see a yellow light 
blinking in front of you. Go forward. You arrive at a corner. Turn left 
here (yellow light). Turn right at the next corner. You arrive in a room 
with a big screen on which you see and hear Kimberly. Then you see two 
gates (left and right). Choose one of them (left or right).

Space Ace Route
Go left. A fat ugly guy appears. Press an action button to shoot him. Then 
go to the right. In this corridor Dexter stops and looks up. In front of you 
there is a blue light blinking, so move the joystick up. Another fat guy 
appears. Shoot him by pressing an action button. You will change back 
into Dexter. On the left a yellow light blinks so go left. You arrive in the 
room with a big video screen. 

Level 3 mirror image
Right = left and left = right.

LEVEL 4

Dexter Route
If the first shot of the laser is on the left side of the screen, you are in 
level 4, otherwise you are in the mirror sequence of level 4 . If you are in 
level 4, jump to the right. Then move your joystick down. Dexter will 
make a little jump backwards. Now move your joystick up. When 
Dexter arrives in the next room you see 'Energize' on the screen. If you 
press an action button you change into Ace (see Space Ace route below). 
Otherwise you have to turn left through the entrance of a tube which 
lights up yellow. You will land on a green platform. Immediately jump 
to the right when the platform is hit and turns blue. You will land on a 
red platform. When this platform is also hit move your joystick to the 
left and Dexter will jump onto the yellow platform which is passing by. 
Then move the joystick forward to jump on the pink platform. When 
this platform gets hit jump to the left once more, where a yellow 
platform is passing by. You will arrive in another room. On the left and 
on the right there is a tube. Choose left or right.

Space Ace Route
You are taken away by a conveyer belt. A red robot appears above you 
and it shoots at your conveyer belt. Press an action button to shoot the 
robot. Then jump to the right on the green platform that is passing by. 
Two other robots will shoot at this platform. Press an action button 
twice. Then jump to the right on a purple platform. Again you have to 
shoot twice at two red robots. Then you change back into Dexter and you 
arrive in another room. You can choose between two tubes. Choose left 
or right,

Level 4 mirror
Left = right and right = left.


LEVEL 5

Dexter Route
The green monsters are chasing you. Move the joystick of your remote 
control up to run away and to avoid being smashed between two large 
monsters. Then turn left immediately. On the next corner go to the right 
(follow the yellow light) and you will arrive on another crossing. You 
can read 'Energize' on your screen. If you move an action button you 
change into Ace (see Space Ace route below). Otherwise you stay Dexter 
and you have to move up to run to the next junction. Turn to the right 
here and then turn left. (Each time you will see a yellow light blinking in 
the direction you ought to go to). Finally move your joystick forward 
twice and you will jump on a ladder and climb into a space ship.

Space Ace Route
Press an action button to crush the two green monsters that jump on 
you. Two robots will try to shoot at you. Go to the right and they will 
shoot each other. Turn left at the next intersection. Again two monster 
dogs will appear. Shoot once by pressing an action button. Then go to the 
left. In front of you, you can see a large robot aiming at you. Press an 
action button to destroy it. Then move your joystick to the left twice to 
keep from being burned. You will change back into Dexter. Turn right 
and you will climb into a spaceship.

Level 5 mirror
Right = left and left = right.

LEVEL 6

Dexter Route
You fall down from a ladder and you land on a wooden bridge. You are 
then immediately captured by a little pink robot. Press an action button 
to shoot it. You see a yellow light on your right, so go to the right and 
you will land on the other side of the bridge. In front of you a big 
column goes up and down. Go forward and jump on it to reach the 
other part of the bridge that still remains. Another pink robot attacks 
you. At that moment 'Energize' appears on the screen. Press an action 
button to become Ace and take the Space Ace route (see below) or move 
your joystick to the right to run away from the robot. Again the robot 
captures you. Press an action button to shoot it. The last parts of the 
bridge are now destroyed. Move your joystick to the right towards the 
yellow light. Then jump to the left. Finally push your joystick up twice.

Space Ace Route
The pink robot will not be able to catch you. A big green swamp monster 
with three eyes will appear in front of you. Press an action button to 
shoot it. Then go to the right to keep from being smashed. Another 
swamp monster appears. Shoot it as well by pressing an action button 
and jump to the left. Also shoot the third monster by pressing an action 
button. You will then change back into Dexter. Move your joystick to the 
right and Dexter will climb up the ladder.

Level 6 mirror
Right = left and left = right.



LEVEL 7

Dexter Route
You are leaving in your spaceship. If the front of your spaceship points to 
the right you are in level 7 and then you have to move your joystick to 
the right (if you are in level 7 mirrored sequence (see below). You will fly 
into a large old spaceship that floats through space. Your enemies are 
close behind you and aim at you. Avoid the first shot by moving the 
joystick up. Avoid the next two shots by going left each time. Then you 
can shoot two enemy ships that appear in front of you by pressing an 
action button twice. Then move up your joystick and you will leave the 
old spaceship. Immediately after this move down to enter it again. Then 
move up to prevent from being shot. Then shoot one of the spaceships 
in front of you. You will automatically arrive at the surface of the old 
spaceship. In front of you, you see a fort looming up. Move your joystick 
up and press an action button to destroy the next spaceship. Move your 
joystick up once more to prevent from being hit. Finally shoot the last 
enemy spaceship by pressing an action button and you will make a 
smooth landing.

Note: on this level there is no Space Ace route


Level 7 mirror
Right = left and left = right


LEVEL 8

Dexter Route
You approach in your spaceship (named Star Pac) and you tumble out of 
it into a little flying transporter. Immediately you are attacked. Move 
your joystick up to keep from being hit. Then immediately turn to the 
left. Turn to the right. Now 'Energize' appears on the screen. If you press 
an action button you'll take the Space Ace route (see below). If you turn to the right you stay Dexter and you have to turn right again. Finally 
turn left and press an action button to shoot one of the monsters.

Space Ace Route
Immediately press an action button and you will shoot the red opponent 
that is flying in front of you. Turn right and then turn left. Press an 
action button once to kill the enemy coming from the left and shoot 
once again by pressing an action button to kill the second enemy. You 
will change back into Dexter and your gun lights up yellow. Finally shoot 
the third monster by pressing an action button.

Level 8 mirror
Right = left and left = right

LEVEL 9

Dexter Route
You land in your 'Space pac'. Immediately you are attacked by a purple 
monster. Press an action button to shoot it. From the left and the right all 
kind of monsters are attacking you. Move your joystick up to run away. 
'Energize' appears on your screen. If you press an action button now you 
change into Ace and enter the Space Ace route. If you want to continue 
as Dexter, move your joystick up to prevent two blue cats from throwing 
you into space. Then a purple monster plant opens his mouth to 
swallow you. Go to the right. Turn left at the next corner. The two blue 
cats are still chasing you. Then you are attacked by another purple 
monster plant. Jump left. You are attacked by another orange monster. 
Kill it by pressing your action button. If you press an action button or 
move your joystick to the right you will jump to the right. Then jump to 
the right to catch the rope that comes your way. Again the orange 
monster tries to swallow you. Press an action button to shoot it. Then 
you see two entrances. Take either one to go the next level.

Space Ace Route
You will automatically throw away the two blue cats. The orange 
monster tries to swallow you. Press an action button to shoot it. Then 
the monster destroys the bridge you are running on. Move your joystick 
to the right to prevent from falling down. The monster grabs you. Shoot 
again by pressing an action button and you will land back on the bridge 
and change into Dexter again. The monster destroys what is left of the 
bridge so move left to run away.

Level 9 mirror
Right = left and left = right


LEVEL 10

Dexter Route
You are falling upside down with your feet tied to a rope. On your right 
you see another rope that lights up yellow ( if the rope appears on your 
left you are in the level 10 mirrored sequence). Move right to grab it. You 
will be taken up and you will see Kimberly. However she immediately 
changes into an enemy. Press an action button to shoot. You will fall 
down. On your right you see a hole. Go to the right to jump into it. Then 
the water starts to rise very fast in the tube you are in. You also see 
'Energize' on the screen. If you now press an action button you change 
into Ace and take the Space Ace route (see below). Otherwise you have 
to move the joystick down in order not to drown. You land in the water 
and your enemy bends over and aims at you. Turn right. You will see 
five enemies. Move right again and you will reach the end of the level.

Space Ace Route
 Your enemy will turn into a giant. He shoots at you, so jump to the left 
immediately. He will appear in front of you. Shoot him by pressing your 
action button. The giant then takes the bridge you are standing on and 
wants to swallow you. Move your joystick to the right to climb on his 
hand and shoot again by pressing an action button. Now your enemy 
tries to shoot you. Move your joystick down and he will shoot off his 
own hand (lovely!). You will land on his arm . Jump to the left on his 
belt and he shoots off his arm . Move to the left again and you will land 
on his right foot. Move your joystick right to jump to his left foot. He 
will shoot them off. Now only the head of the giant remains. It will 
tumble after you trying to eat you. Jump to the right once more and 
finally move your joystick up. You will turn into Dexter again.


Level 10 mirror
Right = left and left = right.


LEVEL 11

Dexter Route
Dexter jumps through a door and then slides down in a transparant 
tube. He lands on a motorcycle. If the motorcycle points to the left you 
are in level 11, otherwise you are in level 11 mirrored sequence. Move 
your joystick to the left. You are followed by Rhino monsters on 
motorcycles. In front of you other rhinos will appear. They will also 
shoot at you, so turn back. Now you're hanging on the back of your 
motorcycle. Press an action button to shoot the rhino that is very close to 
you. 'Energize' appears on your screen. If you press an action button you 
take the Space Ace route (see below). If you want to stay Dexter move 
your joystick down. You turn around and then you see Kimberly. Press
 an action button to shoot the last rhino and you will leave with 
Kimberly.

Space Ace Route
Kimberly is waiting for you. While you are talking to her you have to 
shoot two rhino monsters (press an action button twice). Then you're 
attacked by an enormous wild boar. Move your joystick to the right to 
grab Kimberly and ride away. The wild boar will appear again and you 
have to move the joystick of your remote down to avoid being smashed 
between his 'hands'. Then you arrive at a bridge that is partly destroyed. 
Here you have to turn right. The little pink monsters will jump on your 
motorcycle. Press an action button. Then another one bites your steering 
wheel and another one your gun. Shoot them both (press an action 
button twice). You will ride into a corridor and automatically you will 
come back. Move your joystick to the right. Again little pink monsters 
will attack you. Press an action button to shoot them. Now you arrive at 
a place where rhino cycle monsters are waiting for you. Move your 
joystick to the left to continue. Again rhinos are blocking the way. Turn
right. You are followed now, so turn right again. 10 pink monsters are 
now in front of you. Shoot by pressing an action button and then you 
can continue. Finally you change back into Dexter.

Level 11 mirror
Right = left and left = right


LEVEL 12

Dexter Route
Dexter and Kimberly are falling down on roller skates. The right part of 
the labyrinth lights up yellow, so move to the right. Then the part in 
front of you lights up so move your joystick up. Go left at the next 
intersection. 'Energize' appears on your screen. If you press an action
 button you change into Ace and will proceed along the Space Ace route 
(see below). Otherwise you have to move to the right. Borf will will the 
area with water. On your left you see an 'aquaboat' Move your joystick to 
the left so that you can leave on it. Suddenly you see a large fish that 
tries to swallow you. Shoot it by pressing an action button. You can then 
automatically swim through a hole to get out and complete the level.


Space Ace Route
Move down. Then you will see that the road in front of you collapses. 
Move the joystick up to jump over the hole. On your right a light blinks. 
Go right. Then on your left you see a yellow light. Go left. Then go up 
and afterwards right again. Once more move your joystick up. Finally 
you see a yellow light on your left. Turn left. Now you will get an image 
of Borf activating a trap. Ace and Kimberly are now in a room. This 
room rapidly filling with water. Go to the left. A shark appears in front 
of you. Press an action button to shoot it. Again you see Borf activating 
another trap. Now an orca appears. Meanwhile Ace and Kimberly 
urgently need oxygen. As the word 'Oxygen' appears on your screen, two 
oxygen bells light up. Go right. Then the Orca comes closer. It wants to 
swallow Ace and Kimberly. Move back to the 'Aquaboat'. Now go right 
to run away from the hungry shark. Once more Borf's head appears. He 
activates all the traps. Again the Orca tries to swallow Ace and Kimberly. 
Go down to escape. Then the Orca appears in front of Ace and Kimberly. 
Press an action button to shoot the creature. It isn't defeated right away 
so shoot again by pressing an action button. Then you are attacked by 
seaweed. Again press an action button to shoot kill it. Now the danger 
comes from all sides. Keep on moving right and you will finish the 
level.

Level 12 mirror
Left = right and right = left


LEVEL 13

This level differs from the all others in that there are no mirrored 
sequences and that you can 'energize' four times during the game. If you 
'energize' the first time, you play the level as Ace all the way till the end. 
If, however you 'energize' the second, third or fourth time, you stay 
Dexter a little longer and 'enter' the Ace route a little later, so you skip 
some parts of it.

Dexter Route
You are standing on a big sponge. Choose left, up or right depending on 
which tube lights up yellow. You're then attacked by rhino monsters. 
Press an action button twice. However, you can not prevent Kimberly 
from being taken by these creatures. When you follow her, Borf aims at 
you. Move your joystick to the right to prevent him from hitting you. 
Then turn left at the next intersection. You see 'ENERGIZE' appear on 
your screen. 

OPTIONS:
Ace Route: If you press an action button now you will change into Ace 
and continue path 1 and move the joystick up to defend yourself. Borf 
hits so hard that you fall down. A yellow light blinks on your right. 
Move your joystick to the right. Meanwhile the Rhino's are going to 
barbecue Kimberly, so hurry up. You get up and Borf attacks again. Press 
an action button or move left to defend yourself. You don't get killed but 
Borf hits you with his foot. Again you fall down. Borf strikes and you 
have to move your joystick up or press an action button. Again he 
strikes. Now you have to jump. Move up or press an action button. (***) 
Once more Borf strikes with his magic stick in your direction. Move 
down. Once again, you see Kimberly, lying on a platform, which slowly 
comes closer to the lava. Now move left or move an action button to 
defend yourself against Borf. This time Borf hits you very hard with his 
right foot in the middle of your face. For the third time you fall on your 
back but this time you lose your magic stick. Move to the right as Borf strikes again. Now move up to jump towards the magic stick. (**) Once more you see Kimberly, who is getting quite close to the lava now. Move down the joystick or press an action button to prevent Borf from hitting you once more with his foot in your face. Meanwhile Kimberly is
very close to the lava. A light blinks on your right. Move right and Ace 
jumps on Borf's head. The rhino monsters are coming over to help him. 
The rope lights up, so move left to take it. You land on the platform, 
which is about to disappear in the lava. Immediately move to the right. 
The rhino monsters have followed you, so move left or press an action 
button to pick up the stick. Move an action button again to hit the rhino 
monsters that climbed in your neck. Then Borf, who has climbed back 
on his platform, shoots at you with the Infanto Ray. Jump left to the 
yellow light. Borf shoots again. Move right. Six rhino monsters are lying 
in front of you. Move right to jump back. Borf will hit his own rhimo 
monster. Once more Borf aims at you. Move to the right again. As Borf 
shoots again there is only one solution. Move left and Ace will move 
the mirror to the left. Now watch what happens and enjoy it. You won 
the game.

Path 2
If you stay Dexter you first have to move up. Then go right to prevent 
Borf from hitting you. Again 'Energize' appears on the screen. If you do 
nothing or just move the joystick (don't press the action button!) you 
continue. If you press an action button you take path 3. If you do nothing 
Borf hits you with his foot in your face. Now you have to move up or to 
the right to continue or press an action button to take path 4. If you 
continue (so move right or north) you have to move an action button to 
go to the right and to change into Ace. Then move up to get your stick 
back. Here the game continues in the same way as in path 1, so starting 
from the moment you see Kimberly on the platform.(**)

Path 3
If you activated the third 'energize', you change into Ace. Move your 
joystick up or press an action button. You will fall backwards. Now you 
have to move up to jump. Now the game continues the same way as in 
path 1 (***).

Path 4
If you activated the fourth 'Energize' you change into Ace. Move the 
joystick up or press an action button to jump up. From here on the game 
continues the same way as in path 1 (***)

The game cheatmode.

There are two places in the game where you can activate the cheat- 
mode. The first one is in the "press any button to play"-screen.  This is 
the screen you get after the introduction and the highscores (don't 
interrupt them).  In this screen you have to click four times on button 
two on the left side, then move completely to the right side and click 
three times on button two and than once more on button two on the left 
side. Make sure you use button two because you won't get the cheat-
mode with button one.

The second place where you can activate the cheat-mode is in the screen 
you get after you have finished the game or lost all your lives. It is the 
screen where you have the choice to play again with a "yes" and a "no" 
hotspot (Don't confuse this screen with the pause-screen). Here you 
have to do the same actions : Four clicks on button two on the left, three 
times button two on the right side and one time on button two on the 
left side.

The scores of the cheat-mode won't be displayed in the highscores. You 
have to start the cheat-mode again everytime you lost all your lives.


