
                                 PAC-LAND
                                      
                              ©1984 Namco Ltd.
                                      
                        Reviewed by Robert Blakemore
                                      

   "PAC - The world's most famous computer character is back. There are
   many imitations but only one original PAC-LAND. This internationally
   famous coin-op is not to be missed."

   
                                  The Game
                                      
   The computer character, Pac, is back and this time starring in his own
   adventure cartoon, Pac-Land. Pac-Man is a world wide phenomenon. There
   are scores of imitators in the arcade and in the home but there is
   only one Pac-Land.
   
   There are many different journeys for Pac to attempt. Set on his home
   island, Pac resolves to help a lost fairy home to fairyland. To
   succeed, Pac must pass through towns, forge through rugged mountains,
   cross dangerous ravines and trek across deserts.
   
   Throughout the adventure, Pac is hindered by his relentless enemies
   Blinky, Pinky, Inky and Clyde. These persistent ghosts dwell in the
   Pac-Land and they will do everything in their power to prevent Pac
   succeeding. There is also another ghost, a female Doris, who follows
   him everywhere he goes.
   
   However, Pac has allies too. Power pills when eaten turn ghosts blue,
   they start trembling and can be caught - leaving their eyes to flee
   from the screen ready for a rapid regeneration. Pac has an addiction
   to fruit and although he can move around the whole screen, may have to
   jump in order to eat cherries, apples and other fruit which may
   appear.
   
   In the town he watches for the ghosts in bubble cars. Ravines must be
   crossed, tumbling logs and moving platforms negotiated carefully.
   Also, the ghosts take to the skies in their aircraft when Pac is
   riding the clouds.
   
   When Pac succeeds in getting to Fairyland, the Queen presents him with
   a reward of a pair of flying shoes. These speed him on his journey
   home - but, Blinky, Pinky, Inky, Clyde and Doris are still following
   you and there's a long way to go!

   
                                How To Play
                                      
   To achieve maximum speed, move joystick twice in direction required.
   Hold joystick in position to maintain that speed.
   
   Jumping on top of objects (such as fire hydrants) can generate fruit
   that gives you more points. Jumping from the spring board with
   repeated movement of the joystick in the required direction will keep
   Pac in the air.
   
   At the end of each round you reach 'Break Time'. By jumping at the end
   of the house you can receive a maximum of a 7650 point bonus. Also
   available are 10 points, 100 points, 300 points and 1000 points.
   
   Getting the babies as they fall out of planes gives you points (only
   if you have the helmet - explained later). After getting the Pac-Pill
   you can collect these and gain score just as if they were normal
   ghosts (if you do this you should get Doris fifth, not last, to get
   the bonus - explained later).

   
                                 Game Guide
                                 ---------- 
                                      
                                   Trip 1
                                      
   Jumping on the first three fire hydrants to generate five cherries is
   quite safe as you don't have any cars until after the third hydrant.
   Continuing you can see another fire hydrant just after the Pac-Pill.
   Straight after getting this you can push the fire hydrant backwards
   getting a helmet. This enables you to collect the babies that the
   ghosts throw from their planes (you lose your hat if you run out of
   time or die).
   
   Round Two - The Forest. The first 'cheat' is achieved by pushing the
   second cactus back giving you 80,000 points and transporting you to
   your house at the end of level two (this only works if you haven't
   died and have at least 30,000 points). However, it is often worth not
   using this as continuing throughout the game without using the warps
   will enable you to collect more lives.
   
   If this doesn't work then try the second, third and fourth logs in the
   woods. The machine randomly chooses one of these (pushing the logs
   only work if you haven't died and you have 15,000 points). Get the
   cherry that appears as it turns into another three.
   
   Round Three - The mountains. These have no cheats - but watch out for
   the plane that always flies over the first mountain (a flower
   sometimes grows here and in many other places, I am sure that this
   means nothing). After completing the mountains you pass two cacti.
   Pushing the first one back, on earlier versions, makes you invisible
   and invincible to everything except the water (which just happens to
   be the next obstacle!) To jump over the water - run at full speed over
   the spring board and at the edge press jump and keep on whacking the
   joystick to the right - you should glide over the pool! You have then
   reached Fairyland! Here the Queen gives you a gift of magic boots that
   enable you to fly. You then start Round 4 going back the opposite way.
   
   Round Four - You first encounter cacti that you must jump over. If at
   any point you see the letter 'S' in a Pac bubble flying about - get it
   - it's an extra life. There is also another letter in a Pac bubble
   that flies around the screen - the letter 'L' - this can be achieved
   after getting a Pac-Pill, getting four ghosts and then Doris fifth
   (Doris is the one that chases you and the only one that has no hat
   after eating a Pac-Pill).
   
   The last cactus that you jump over is very tall. Try pushing the lower
   section of it backwards as this generates 7 balloons. Six of which are
   worth 100 points but one is worth 7650 points. Get this and don't
   bother with the others.
   
   Continue going home once you reach the town, jump on all fire hydrants
   as this always generates cherries. If pushing the cactus back didn't
   do anything then try pushing the second to last fire hydrant back -
   this will generate the balloons.
   
   When you arrive home you can still jump to get 7650 points.
   

                                   Trip 2
                                      
   Round Five - The Town. Jump on the fire hydrants to generate cherries.
   Push the third hydrant back to give you the hat. If you pass two fire
   hydrants on top of each other then jump on top of these. The blue
   things that push you along (water jets) can also push you on top of
   the houses. This is advisable as it keeps you away from any double
   decker buses! If the second fire hydrant didn't give the helmet then
   the fourth fire hydrant along will.
   
   Round Six - The water pool area. You have two short(ish) pools to
   clear, followed by more ghosts on pogo sticks (here appears another
   floating cherry). The last pool is the longest of these and must be
   judged carefully to clear.
   
   Round Seven - The water jets. You have three different platforms to
   jump on (always try to stay on the highest one). If a flying water jet
   happens to hit you then whack the joystick everywhere and press fire
   as it is possible to escape. Not much on this round, just collect
   loads of strawberries. After this you reach fairyland again, you
   receive the boots again, and have to return home.
   
   Round Eight - The trip home. Firstly, you have to cross the long pool
   - backwards. Jump to the top of the screen straight away to get the
   cherries and clear the planes. There are stumps sticking out that you
   can land on and get cherries. After this there is the forest to
   complete. The first or second to last log will give the balloons.
   

                                   Trip 3

                                      
   Round Nine - The Water Pool Area. You leave your house and go straight
   into the water pool area. There are three cacti on this round. Pushing
   either the first (before the pool), second (before the skeleton) or
   third (before the Pac-pill) back will give you the helmet. The pool is
   slightly different as it has a stump sticking out of the water that
   has an extra spring board you can land on. After this there is a
   skeleton (that drags you down into the ground) and must be jumped
   over.
   
   Round Ten - The forest. Pushing one of the logs back will make you
   invincible to the ghosts. This works even if you have died. When you
   start flashing, the invincibility is about to ware off.
   
   Round eleven - The logs and clouds. Much like the one on Trip 1 except
   after jumping the logs, you have to jump onto clouds (although not
   essential as Pac can clear all the cloud jumps in one). After this you
   reach fairyland yet again and you receive the boots.
   
   Round twelve - The trip home. First collect the three cherries. Then
   you have to jump backwards over a large pool - with no stumps. After
   this you reach the town. One of the few fire hydrants gives the
   balloon's.
   

                                   Trip 4
                                      
   Round 13 - The Town. This level has many double hydrants. Jump on
   these and wait for the water jet to push you up onto the houses.
   Walking along the houses gives you some cherries. On many versions
   there is no helmet on this round.
   
   Round 14 - The cavern. You have to collect the keys to open the doors.
   The first key is on the top layer. Jump up there to get it. Keep going
   right and fall down the hole. Keep going right and fall down the next
   one too (you should now be on the bottom layer). Keep going right
   (staying on this level) and open the door. Keep going right. Jump up
   through the next hole and get the apples. Continue right, fall down
   the hole and get the key. Use this immediately to open the door.
   
   Keep going right, do not jump through the first hole and stay on the
   lowest level. You can then get two apples, jump through the hole and
   get a key, and then fall through another hole to get another two
   apples. Continue right and after opening the door, jump through the
   holes to get from the bottom level to the top. Open the door you reach
   and go through. Fall through the next two holes (so that you are back
   on the lowest level). Open the door you reach and get the two apples.
   Return through the door you've just come through, jump to the middle
   layer and continue right. You will now be out of the cavern and have
   reached 'break time'. So long as you don't waste time and keys it is
   actually easy.
   
   Round 15 - The water jets. I think that pushing one of these fire
   hydrants may give the helmet, but I'm not too sure. Watch out for the
   planes at the very end of the level. Try to jump on them.
   
   Round 16 - The trip home. The first gives the balloon's. Next it's the
   mountains. The is normally an extra life lurking around the second
   mountain so go backwards once for it if it doesn't come (an 'S' in a
   Pac). Then is the forest. The first log encountered gives the
   balloon's if the cactus didn't.
   

                                   Trip 5
                                      
   Round 17 - A forest level. On some versions of the machine the very
   first cactus will give the helmet. Just before the water is a Pac-Pill
   and it is quite easy to get the time bonus. After the pool, there is a
   short forest, following that is a spring board that must be used to
   clear a second pool that cannot be seen from that point.
   
   Round 18 is the cavern, but you only have limited sight. The first key
   is on the lower level. Go right, then jump up to the middle level,
   then jump up to the top layer. Keep going right and fall down a hole
   to the middle layer (you'll be in between two doors). Jump back up to
   the top level (making sure you don't open either of these.
   
   Once back on the top level, keep going right and you'll reach a door.
   Open it and get the key directly behind. Keep going right, fall down
   to the middle layer, get the key, fall down to the lower level,
   collect the fruit. Open the door you come across. Don't jump through
   the next hole, but through the one after that. Jump to get the key
   (fall straight back down again). Keep going right. Jump up through the
   next hole, go right, and fall down the next.
   
   Open the next door (you're still on the bottom level) and jump through
   the next hole. Then jump up to the top level, open the door and get
   the fruit. Go through on the top and open the end door. Fall through
   the holes and go to the bottom level. Go right and collect the fruit
   there. finally, go to the middle level and exit to 'Break Time'.
   
   Round 19 - The mountains. Clear these and the clouds as usual, but
   watch out for the planes at the end (over the part with three sets of
   moving logs). Enter fairyland.
   
   Round 20 - The return home. This is very easy. Keep on going left, You
   first hit a forest. Watch out for the ghost near the end. This is
   followed by a pool, get all the cherries on the way, but _don't_ stop
   for anything. Then you reach another forest, then another pool, then
   the last forest (watch out for another ghost here) and then the town.
   By the time you reach the town you will be out of time and must run
   full speed from Doris. Try to get the Pac-Pill but if you miss it,
   don't go back for it!
   

                                   Trip 6
                                      
   Round 21 - The town. This is hard as there are so many ghosts. It is
   pointless jumping onto the double hydrants as getting on top of the
   houses may involve hitting a plane. Try to stay on the top of the
   double-decker busses, jumping from one to another. This will stop you
   needing a run up. The Pac-Pill at the end can only be got by first
   jumping onto a ghost. Don't bother with it unless you are already on a
   ghost. Go straight for 'Break Time'.
   
   Round 22 - The mountains. As well as the clouds, you meet a new
   section - four logs in water that must be jumped onto and crossed.
   Careful judgement is needed here. Get the Pac-Pill afterwards as
   you'll need it. Time is short so don't stop for anything.
   
   Round 23 - The water jets. This gets hard towards the end as there are
   many ghosts around. Try to stay on the planes. You then reach
   fairyland.
   
   Round 24 - The trip home. First are the water jets to cross. This is
   quite easy as there aren't many ghosts and enables you to collect a
   lot of fruit. Then you enter the town. The last part of this is very
   hard. Just jump for the Pac-Pill when you see it and hope you get it
   before you are killed! Don't wait around.
   

                                   Trip 7
                                      
   Round 25 - The woods. There are two woods split up by a load of
   skeletons. Don't use the spring board or you will hit one of the
   planes. All of the skeletons are fake apart from the first and last.
   So don't worry about touching them. When you enter the first wood,
   look for the helmet at the fourth log. I think it is hidden in there.
   
   Round 26 - The mountains - again! This time you don't have many logs
   to jump on and there are very few clouds. Most of the mountains have
   to be jumped without any clouds. This level also contains the logs in
   water and is the furthest that I've ever got.
   
   My high score is 517,670

End

