Version 1.3 9/17/12

7777777   ttt    hhh
7777777   ttt    hhh
   777  ttttttt  hhh
  777     ttt    hhhhhhhh
 777      ttt    hhh  hhh
777       ttt    hhh  hhh

The 7th Guest
A Walkthrough by Michael Gray
AKA The Lost Gamer (ilovecartoonssomuch@yahoo.com)
Copyright 2012


For a list of all my various guides, check
http://the_lost_gamer.tripod.com/guides.html


Table of Contents:
001.  General information
002.  Controls
003.  Puzzle Order
004.  Walkthrough
  004a. Library and Dining Room
  004b. Upstairs Puzzles
  004c. Crypt Puzzles
  004d. More Upstairs Puzzles
  004e. Laboratory Sequence
  004f. The Final Two Puzzles
005.  Credits



001-General Information
---------------------------------------------------------

This is a walkthrough for the game called The 7th Guest. It 
is a horror-based adventure game that was made in 1992 and
released across several platforms.

To contact me about this guide, use my email address 
ilovecartoonssomuch@yahoo.com.

002-Controls 
---------------------------------------------------------

The game has controls which may be trick to figure out if
you don't have a manual. In general, move your mouse around
the screen to control the cursor.

If your cursor is a wagging finger, you cannot do anything.

If your cursor is a hand which is beckoning forward, you 
can click here to move forward.

If your cursor is a hand which beckons left or right, you 
can click here to move in that direction. This usually 
happens when you move the cursor against the left or right 
side of a screen.

If the cursor is a drama mask, you can watch a scene.

If the cursor is a throbbing brain, you can click to get a 
puzzle.

003-Puzzle Order
---------------------------------------------------------

There are 22 rooms in the mansion, and each room has a 
puzzle. There is a slight order to the puzzles. The first 
two puzzles of the game are available at the start of the 
game. The spider puzzle is unlocked after solving the cake 
puzzle.

1. Telescope puzzle in the library
2. Cake puzzle in the dining room
3. Spider puzzle at the front door

Solving the cake puzzle unlocks four puzzles on the second 
floor.

4. Queens puzzle in game room 
5. Blood Flow puzzle in bedroom
6. Bedspread puzzle in bedroom
7. Bishops puzzle in bedroom

Solving the cake puzzle also unlocks a series of puzzles 
leading to the crypt.

8. Cans puzzle in the kitchen
9. Grate puzzle in basement
10. Maze puzzle is basement
11. Crypt puzzle in basement

When the above puzzles are solved, you can see a scene in 
the library, where the telescope is. This unlocks more 
puzzles.

12. Cards puzzle in bedroom
13. Knights puzzle in the bathroom
14. Flip puzzle in the toy room
15. Blocks puzzle in the dollhouse in the toy room

Watching the scene in the library also unlocks a series of 
puzzles in one particular room.

16. Coins puzzle in bedroom
17. Pit puzzle in chapel
18. Microscope puzzle in laboratory (optional puzzle which 
is not included in the iOS version)

Solving the pit puzzle unlocks two more puzzles.

19. Stauf's Face in portrait room
20. Piano puzzle in music room (not included in iOS 
version)

Solving all of the above puzzles unlocks the final two 
puzzles.

21. Knives puzzle in hallway
22. Skyscraper puzzle in attic

The microscope puzzle is optional in all versions of the 
game.

004-Walkthrough
---------------------------------------------------------

Start the game and watch the opening scene about the madman 
Stauf and the mansion he built.

004a-First Floor Puzzles
---------------------------------------------------------

The game starts with six guests arriving at the mansion. 
You are the seventh guest. You start near the staircase, 
and there are two puzzles you can solve at the start of the 
game.

Telescope Puzzle
----------------

The telescope is in the library. If you're facing the 
staircase, the library is on the right, through the single 
door.

Zoom in on the telescope. You want to create a sentence 
here, by tapping on the letters which are next to each 
other. The sentence is "There is no possible way". 

Cake Puzzle
-----------

One room left of the staircase is the dining room, while 
the other is the kitchen. You cannot go into the kitchen 
yet, so it is easy to tell which room is which.

Go into the dining room and zoom in on the table. There is 
a cake here, and the guests mention that each of them gets 
to have an identical piece.

There are 30 pieces of cake here, so each person gets five 
slices. Two slices must have a skull decoration, and two 
slices must have a grave decoration. The various slices 
must be adjacent to each other.

Try out this puzzle by tapping on all the slices in the 
rightmost column, then tapping all the slices in the lowest 
row. That should give you a good idea of how to remove 
pieces from the board.

The solution is this, if each number stands for a different 
group of five slices:

112236
111236
442236
444336
555556

Solving the cake puzzle unlocks several puzzles. One of 
them is the spider puzzle, on this floor.

Spider Puzzle
-------------

The spider puzzle is at the front door, which is opposite 
of the main staircase. Watch the scene at the door in order 
to activate the puzzle.

The star design has eight points. Tap on a point, then send 
the spider to another point. Your goal is to fill the board 
with spiders, and it's really simple. Whenever you move a 
spider FROM a point, the next move is to move a spider TO 
that point.

  1
 2 3
4   6
 5 7
  8

For example, say you start by moving the spider on Point 1. 
On the next move, send a spider to Point 1. Just keep 
moving spiders to the point of the previous spider's 
departure, and you'll do fine. One of the man solutions is 
this:

1 to 5.
7 to 1.
4 to 7.
3 to 4.
8 to 3.
2 to 8.
6 to 2.

You can put off solving the spider puzzle until the very 
end of the game, if you want.

004b-Upstairs Puzzles
---------------------------------------------------------

Go up the large staircase. If you solved the cake puzzle in 
the dining room, there are four puzzles you can solve 
upstairs. Two are in rooms on the right of the stairs, 
while two are in rooms to the left.

You can't enter any rooms upstairs, besides the four which 
have puzzles in them, so you shouldn't get lost while 
trying to find them.

Queens
------

Turn right and go straight down the hallway to the game 
room. Zoom in on the chessboard for a queens puzzle. You 
must place eight queens on an 8 by 8 chessboard, so that 
the path of no queen overlaps the path of another. For 
those of you who don't know how to play chess, this means 
each queen must be in a different row, column and diagonal. 
Here is one solution to the puzzle:

.q......
.....q..
q.......
......q.
...q....
.......q
..q.....
....q...

Blood Flow
----------

Leave the game room and turn right. There's a blood flow 
puzzle on the rug in this bedroom. Flip the valves in order 
to make a clear path from the heart to the exit on the 
right. It helps to work from the exit backwards.

The blood goes down on the first valve, right on the 
second, down on the third, left on the fourth, down on the 
fifth, right on the sixth, right on the seventh, and left 
on the eighth. It then travels to the upper half of the 
board.

On the upper half of the board, the blood flow goes left, 
left, down, left, up, right, up, down, right, up, right, 
right, left, down, right, and down. Tap on the heart when 
you have the solution.

Bedspread
---------

Leave this room and turn right. Go down the hallway. The 
first room on the left has the bedspread puzzle on the bed. 
You get told that you can only skip three and fives. That 
means you can go forward or backwards, three or five 
spaces.

For example, start by going forward three to "T". Go 
forward five to "H", then back three to "E". Go back three 
to a star.

The message you're spelling is 
THE*SKY*IS*RUDDY*YOUR*FATE*IS*BLOODY 

T - Forward 3
H - Forward 5
E - Back 3
* - Back 3
S - Forward 5
K - Back 3
Y - Forward 5
* - Forward 3
I - Forward 3
S - Forward 3
* - Back 5
R - Forward 3
U - Back 5
D - Forward 3
D - Forward 3
Y - Forward 3
* - Forward 3
Y - Forward 5
O - Back 3
U - Back 3
R - Back 3
* - Forward 5
F - Forward 3
A - Forward 3
T - Forward 5
E - Forward 3
* - Back 5
I - Forward 3
S - Back 5
* - Back 5
B - Forward 3
L - Forward 3
O - Forward 5
O - Back 3
D - Forward 5
Y - Forward 3

Bishops
-------

Leave the room. Go through the door opposite of the room 
you just left. The floor here has a bishops puzzle, which 
is above the maze rug. Simply swap the white pieces with 
the black pieces. Since they're chess bishops, they can 
only move diagonally. No two bishops of different colors 
can ever occupy the same diagonal line.

If you tap a piece, and it can only move to one spot, it 
automatically goes there. Other times, when there are 
multiple places you can move a piece, you get asked which 
place to put it. Move the cursor over the space you want to 
move it to; a mouth appears if you can go there.

Since this is chess, the pieces on black spots will always 
be on black spots, and the same is true of pieces on the 
white spots. There are ten spots of each color, four of 
which will be occupied at all times. That makes this 
tricky, but not impossible.

Let's start with switching the pieces on the white squares. 
Let's call the black pieces B1 and B2. B1 is on top, B2 is 
on bottom. For the white pieces, let's say W1 is the one on 
top and W2 is the one on bottom.

Move B2 and W2. Move B2 right twice, and move W2 left 
twice. Now your two white pieces are in the same diagonal, 
and your two black pieces are in the same diagonal.

Move B1 right once, then up/right once. It is in the middle 
of the upper row. Now, move B2 to the right.

Move W2 right, then up/left twice, to the corner of the 
board. Move B1, and it automatically goes to the left. Now, 
all the pieces are back in their starting places, except 
the upper white and lower black pieces have switched 
places.

Move the white piece on the right, then the black piece on 
the right. They both go to the middle column. Move the 
white piece on the right down/right.

Move the left black piece, then move it to the upper/right 
corner. Move the left black piece down/right once. Move the 
right white piece, and it goes left twice.

From here, move the lower white piece left and the lower 
black piece right. Done! Or at least, you've moved all the 
pieces on the white squares. Moving the pieces on the black 
squares will be the same thing, only flipped upside-down.

Let's keep the same naming convention of W1 being the upper 
white piece and W2 being the lower white piece.

Move B1 and W1. Move B1 right twice, and move W1 left 
twice. Now your two white pieces are in the same diagonal, 
and your two black pieces are in the same diagonal.

Move B2, then move it down/right once. It is in the middle 
of the bottom row. Now, move B1 to the right.

Move W1 right, then down/left twice, to the corner of the 
board. Move B2, and it automatically goes to the left. Now, 
all the pieces are back in their starting places, except 
the upper white and lower black pieces have switched 
places.

Move the white piece on the right, then the black piece on 
the right. They both go to the middle column. Move the 
white piece on the right up/right.

Move the left black piece, then move it to the lower/right 
corner. Move the left black piece up/right once. Move the 
right white piece, and it goes left twice.

From here, move the right white piece left and the left 
black piece right. Done! Jeez, what a pain of a puzzle.

004c-Crypt Puzzles
---------------------------------------------------------

Solving the cake puzzle in the dining room (see section 
004a) unlocks a series of puzzles in the kitchen. If you're 
facing the main stairs, the kitchen is left of the stairs, 
through the single door.

Cans Puzzle
-----------

Zoom in on the back wall for a cans puzzle. Here, you want 
to rearrange the cans to spell words and make a sentence. 
The trick is that the only vowel you have to work with is 
"Y".

The sentence is this: "Shy gypsy slyly spryly tryst by my 
crypt." Technically, that's not a sentence because the verb 
should be "trysts", not "tryst", but the game accepts it.

Grate Puzzle
------------

Turn right and go through the door. You have a slider 
puzzle, in which you want to have a large hole on the 
right. Let's name the pieces like this:

1 2 3
4 5 6

Tap on them in this order: 5632, 5412, 5632, 5632, 1456, 
32.

Maze
----

Solving the grate opens the maze. The map to the maze is in 
the upstairs room with the Bishops puzzle.

Go all the way forward, to a wall. Turn right to a dead 
end, then backtrack with three left turns. Go forward, 
right, right, right, left, right, forward, right and left.

Crypt Puzzle
------------

You have a randomized puzzle, where some of the nine crypts 
are open. Your goal is to shut them all. The trick is that 
when you close some crypts, it opens other crypts. 
Fortunately, this follows a regular pattern.

If you close a crypt in one of the four corners, it affects 
the three crypts adjacent to it. If you close the crypt in 
the middle, if affects the four crypts adjacent to it. If 
you close one of the crypts which is in the middle of the 
four sides, it affects the two other crypts on that side.

Play around with the crypts, until you can get all of them 
to close. Since the crypts that are open change each time 
you play the game, the solution changes each time you play 
the game as well. If you're having trouble, go to the main 
menu and return to the game to automatically reset the 
puzzle with a new configuration.

Once the puzzle is over, go forward to the crypt to return 
to the kitchen.

004d-More Upstairs Puzzles
---------------------------------------------------------

Once you've solved the telescope puzzle, the cake puzzle, 
the four puzzles upstairs and the four puzzles in the 
crypt, you unlock a scene in the library. Watch this scene 
in order to unlock more puzzles.

The puzzles are in the rooms upstairs, which were 
previously locked.

Cards Puzzle
------------

Go up the stairs, then take the first door on the right. On 
the dresser in the lower/right is a card puzzle. You want 
to flip over all the cards, but you can only make moves 
which go left, right, up or down.

The first puzzle is:

     14
   1 2  3
9  8 13 4 12
   7 6  5
10         11

The second puzzle is:

  13 12 11 10
      3      4
      2       1
      6      5
  14  7  8  9


There are multiple solutions to these puzzles.
 
Knights Puzzle
--------------

Leave the card room through the middle door, then turn 
left. The bathroom is the second door on your left.

This puzzle is on the ground of the bathroom. It is like 
the bishops puzzle: swap the black pieces with white 
pieces. If you can move a piece to the blank spot, an 
eyeball will appear over that piece.

Knights move in a peculiar fashion, in chess. They move two 
squares in one direction, then one square in another. Their 
range of movement looks sort of like an "L".

I like to start out by swapping the pieces on the outside 
of the board. Go to one of the squares on the edge of the 
board, then move around the board in a clockwise fashion. 
Always make a clockwise move that is as close to the edge 
of the board as possible. After six turns around the board, 
almost all the outside pieces will be in place, except for 
the four corners.

From here, you can ignore the pieces on the outside edge of 
the board. They're in place, so don't disturb them again. 
Instead, work with the nine squares in the middle of the 
board, and the four corner squares. Get the corner squares 
to be the correct colors. Work on one corner at a time, and 
when one corner is filled, don't disturb it again.

Anyway, that's the best help I can give, without providing 
an extremely long list of moves. Do the outside edge pieces 
first, then don't disturb them. Using only the middle 
pieces, get the four corner pieces in place. Then play 
around with the middle pieces until everything is done. 
You'll probably have to make one or two adjustments when 
playing yourself, but that's a pretty sound general 
strategy.

Flip Puzzle
-----------

Leave the bathroom and turn right. Go all the way down the 
hall and into the room for the flip puzzle. In this puzzle, 
you can press the twelve knobs on the side of the board, in 
order to flip all the tiles in that particular row or 
column.

Pressing the buttons on the top or left moves the pictures 
forward through the rotation, while pressing the buttons on 
bottom or right moves the pictures backwards through the 
rotation.

The rotation is:

1. Bottom/left
2. Bottom/middle
3. Bottom/right
4. Top/left
5. Top/middle
6. Top/right
7. Middle/left
8. Middle/middle
9. Middle/right

Two rows or columns will always contain an identical 
configuration (though you may have to rotate the 
row/columns a bit to get them to match). The easiest way to 
identify identical rows is to push the buttons on the left 
side of the board, until all three pictures in the left 
column are the same.

The easiest way to solve the puzzle is by getting all the 
squares on the board to be the same picture. Once you have 
that, use the column buttons (and ONLY the column buttons), 
until the bottom row is completed, and it looks the way 
it's supposed to look. Then, use the row buttons (and ONLY 
the row buttons) to get the top two rows in place.

Block Puzzle
------------

Zoom in on the dollhouse in the toy room. The bottom drawer 
of the dresser has a block puzzle, in which you must spell 
three specific words:

GET
BOY
TAD

This works just like the flip puzzle. Tap the side of one 
of the outside blocks, to change all three blocks in that 
row or column.

  1 2 3
4       5
6       7
8       9
  a b c

A solution is 2, c, 5, 8, 2, c, 6, and 9.

004e-Laboratory Sequence
---------------------------------------------------------

Seeing the scene in the library also unlocks a puzzle 
sequence upstairs.

Coins Puzzle
------------

Go upstairs. The second door on your left is a bedroom, 
with a coins puzzle on the bed.

You need to flip all of the coins here. You can move up, 
down, left and right, but you're not supposed to jump over 
any coins. There are, of course, multiple solutions.

The first series of coins can be done like this:

1
2 15
3 14 13
4 5  12 11
  6  7  10
     8  9

And the second series can be done like this:

     17 18
   3     4    5
        19      20
15 2 16 12 11 6 21
14      13
   1     8    7
         9 10

Pit
---

There is a scene on the left part of this room. Watch it to 
reach the chapel, which has a puzzle on the floor.

You want to get from the bottom/left to the bottom/right. 
Every third block you press must be a purple block, or else 
the solution doesn't count. The final block counts as a 
purple block. It's pretty easy to follow these rules, while 
going counter-clockwise to the exit.
 
               15
 9 10       14
 7 8  11 12 13
6
 5
 4
 3  2
 1

Solving the pit puzzle unlocks three puzzles: the 
microscope puzzle, the Stauf's face puzzle, and the piano 
puzzle.

Microscope
----------

Once you solve the pit puzzle, you can go forward to the 
altar. Go right from there to the laboratory. Go up to the 
microscope, which has a puzzle.

The microscope puzzle is not included in the iOS version of 
the game. It is an optional puzzle in the other versions of 
the game, which is fortunate, because a lot of people have 
trouble with it.

The game is simple: you want to cover more of the board 
than your opponent. Since the board has 49 squares, this 
means you must capture at least 25 to win.

You can move two squares in any direction, including 
diagonals. Tap on a blank space to move your piece there. 
If there are any enemy pieces in the adjacent squares to 
the one you landed on, they become your pieces.

Stauf's Face
------------

Go to the front door, then turn around so you're looking at 
the main stairs. On the floor in front of the stairs is a 
portal leading to a room filled with paintings. Turn right 
for a painting puzzle.

You have a randomized puzzle, which works just like the 
crypt puzzle. Your goal is to turn Stauf's face back to 
normal. The trick is that when you change the color of one 
part of his face, it affects other parts of his face. 
Fortunately, this follows a regular pattern.

If you tap a square in one of the four corners, it affects 
the three squares adjacent to it. If you tap the square in 
the middle, if affects the four squares adjacent to it. If 
you tap one of the squares which is in the middle of the 
four sides, it affects the two other squares on that side.

Play around with the squares, until you can get all of them 
to be normal colored. Since the colors of the squares 
change each time you play the game, the solution changes 
each time you play the game as well. If you're having 
trouble, go to the main menu and return to the game to 
automatically reset the puzzle with a new configuration.

To leave the room, turn right and go through the picture of 
the piano.

Piano Puzzle
------------

The piano is in the music room, which is to the right of 
the main stairs. This puzzle is not included in the iOS 
version of the game.

The puzzle is simple. Stauf plays a note. Then, you have to 
tap it.

Now, Stauf plays two notes. Tap both those notes, in the 
order Stauf tapped them.

Now, Stauf plays three notes. Tap all three notes, in the 
order Stauf tapped them.

You continue repeating the pattern Stauf sets, until you 
reach 18 notes. The notes are these: Low B, B, F#, G, E, 
D#, E, F#, E, Low B, B, High C, B, A, G, F#, E, F#.

004f-The Final Two Puzzles
---------------------------------------------------------

Knives
------

When you've solved all of the puzzles in the game (the 
microscope puzzle is optional), go upstairs. Turn left and 
go down the hallway. The hallway branches off to the right, 
near the end. Zoom in on this hallway for a puzzle.

You can't zoom in on this hallway, if you haven't solved 
the preceding puzzles.

      1
2   3   4   5
  6       7
      8
  9      10

The ten spaces form a vague star, and the knife in #1 falls 
off. You want to get rid of all the knives, by jumping them 
in sequence. The rules are pretty much the same as Chinese 
checkers. Tap the places in this order:

6
5
8
2
1
5
9
10

Solving the puzzle opens the door to the attic.

Skyscraper Puzzle
-----------------

Go through the door and upstairs to the attic. The 
skyscraper puzzle is on the right.

There are various windows on the skyscraper. Each one has a 
direction attached to it.

Circle: Up
Semi-Circle: Right
Rectangle: Left
Rectangle with Curved Top: Down

Using this information, you want to make a path from bottom 
to top.

Level One
---------

Start with the third-from-right window on the bottom floor. 
This one is a circle. Then, follow the path indicated by 
the window shapes to the exit (the circle on the top level)

The path is up, right, right, up, left, up, up to the top 
level. Then left, left, down, right, down, left, left, and 
down to the bottom level. Left, left, left, up, right, up, 
right, up and left to the exit.

Level Two
---------

Again, your goal is to reach the circle on the top level. 
Do this by starting at the window which is third-from-left, 
on the bottom level. It is a circle.

You go up, left, left, up, right, up and up to the top 
level. You then go right, down, right, down, right, up and 
up to the exit.

Level Three
-----------

Final level! This one is simple. Start with the second-
from-left window on the bottom floor. This is a circle.

You go up, right, up and right to the exit.
 
When the puzzle is done, go through the door on the other 
side of the room to see the ending scene.

005-Credits
---------------------------------------------------------

This FAQ is copyright of The Lost Gamer, 2012.  If you want 
to use any part of this FAQ, ask me first (instructions 
under general information).

