GUNPEY Player's guide
Copyright 1999 Ryan Toledo
"Gunpey" 1999 Koto/Wonderswan 1999 Bandai
Alpha version; Proudly Phillippine-made

Well, it looks like Bandai's stepping on the compact game system biz.
Anyway, as with any newly-released game system, there's always this little
intro puzzle game like Tetris or Columns. Gunpey is one of them, but it's
not a Tetris clone mind you…Gunpey packs new, original &simple gameplay
that makes a game a classic…

GENERAL GAMEPLAY

Basically, all you have to do is connect one side of the screen to the
other by connecting lines of different shapes. Simple ?  Right . You can
position those lines in the screen using a manipulator (2 shaded squares on
top of each other) which can move the lines up or down (although the
manipulator itself can move left & right) & pressing the (3) button. You
can get more line parts by pressing the (2) button but doing so will move
the field one panel up. Now once you connect 5 line parts or more, it will
be cleared from the screen and the appropriate score is given, a clear
bonus of 10,000 pnts  (Who says scores are not " in"  anymore?) .Will be
given if you cleared the screen of all the lines. Game's over when one or
more line parts cross the upper part of the screen.

GAME MODES
There are 5 modes: Endless, Stage, Story, Free and Puzzle…

Endless mode

In Endless mode, there are no line quotas & no stages to worry about. Just
keep on connecting those lines & make those combos (Yes! Combos! More on
these on the Hints & Tips section).

Free mode

May be thought of as the "practice" mode of the game. Don't worry about
getting line parts going over the screen you'll never get a game over
here…this is where you can monitor your score & practice your combos…

Stage mode

Like "Tetris" &  "Columns", this mode has stages in w/c you are to make a
certain quota of lines. Combos are highly recommended  since you can rack
up some serious pnts. in this mode.

Story mode

I'm really surprised that this game had a story! It's kinda weird but hey
it's fun! You play as Gunpey an anthropomorphic gecko hombre in a new town.
Nobody seems to care about your arrival, when suddenly, a cat girl comes to
you! She's being chased by a group of  anthropomorphic villains for reasons
unknown. Naturally, you're her gecko-in-shinning-armor so you help her.
Each baddie will challenge you in a game and each has a "special" skill of
his own. Here they are:

- Hank (black chick) = He shifts the screen to the right. Not so bad…
- Nick (white chick) = He jumbles you lines, ruining your potential combos.
Kick his butt before he gets you!
- Domingo (vulture) = This guy is a real pain in the behind! Not only does
he "blacks-out" a big portion of the screen (1 square from the
manipulator), you have to encounter him 2x !!!  Just take it easy and build
simple lines as fast as you can…
- Patrick (cat) = Not that much trouble, he shifts the rows alternately.
Again keep your cool.
- Thomas (another cat) = Doesn't seem to have  a special so, EAT HIM ALIVE!!!
- Bobby (pig) = This guy's a real glutton, he "eats" (brings down) one
culomns worth of lines…this really ruins a potential killer line…
- Pike (fox) = the big cheese…he fills the last 4 rows with "!" boxes.
Defeating him takes a lot of skill, practice & memory so come prepared!

*Note #1: Every once in a while, the bosses will drop "?" boxes on the
screen w/c will block a portion of the screen. You can cancel then by
building a line through them…
*Note #2: Of  course Gunpey iis not left behind, he's got a special of his
own! He cancels all the "?" boxes on the screen! You have to wait for his
SP meter to fill up though…

Puzzle mode

In this mode, you are given a set of lines and it's up to you to find the
solution on how to connect all of them into one line. Leave one line part
or more behind and the game's over. You are given a time meter to see how
fast you can connect all the lines. This mode can be a real headache so
play it in a relaxed mood…this mode also tests all the skills you have
learned in the other modes like "triggering" and making intersections…

TIPS & HINTS

-Practice in "Free mode" if you're gonna play this game for the first
time..it's a good way of improving your skills quickly.
-Get familiar w/ the simpler combos first (like placing diamonds between
the lines for an easy 1200 pnts.).
-Always think of ways on how you can connect the lines with each other.
-You can still connect a line(s) while another is getting cleared. Doing so
will add more points because that line will be considered a combo.
-Clear bonuses are a neat way of getting huge scores. There's an initial
clear bonus line on most stages (esp. stage 1) so keep a lookout for them!
-Learn how to "trigger" lines, that is, leaving a part of line vacant or
put a trigger on it (ex. Putting a diamond on it, then reversing it,
switching it only when you' about to build a 19,000 pnt. )
 -Don't be afraid to push the (2) button when you need more line parts…
believe me, you'll gonna need it.

SECRET!!! Personalize your Wonderswan!

All you have to do is hold the START button while turning on your unit. A
boot-up screen will appear and now you can enter your name, age, b-day,
bloodtype & sex. Now everytime you turn on you unit, the screen will
display your name insyead of the Wonder swan logo

THANKS TO THE FOLLOWING:
-Thanks to Dennis Gavino and family for bringing the Wonderswan here…you're
wonderful!!!
-To Homer, Roe and the rest of the gang for playing and testing "Gunpey"
-To Nel for tolerating our nice.
-To Peter Depamaylo for teaching me how to do a FAQ…Check out his cool
Langrisser guide!
-To GameFAQS for accepting this guide
-To all compact gamers out there…Gambatte!
-To Koto, for making "Gunpey"…
-…And of course to Bandai for making one of the coolest compact game unit
ever

Condolences to those who's been KO'ed by "Thomas" in Story mode…

Watch out for more WS games soon!

This guide copyright R.Toledo 1999 



