Super Robot Taisen Compact 2 - Dai 1 Bu: Chijou Gekidou Hen
Walkthrough Version 1.0 - 04/23/2007
by Carlos Mori (csmori@hotmail.com)



   This is my guide for "Super Robot Taisen Compact 2 Dai 1 Bu", the first of
three parts of this Wonderswan game. I hope this can be helpful for all those
who want to play this game.

   Before going any further, please notice this document aims to describe all
stages, events and possibities available on the game; therefore, it's full of
spoilers. I did this because most of this guide's intended readers can't read
japanese and would not be able to make sense of the game's story by any other
means.



LEGAL STUFF------------------------------------------------------------------

   This document is copyrighted © 2006 Carlos Satoshi Mori. No one is allowed
to change this document, in any way, without my express permission. No one is
allowed to sell this document (or charge money to cover distribution or media
costs), nor use it as a gift or a promotional tool of any kind.

   As of this version (1.0), the only website allowed to publish this file is
GameFAQs (www.gamefaqs.com): its publishing is forbidden for any other sites.
This document also cannot be reproduced, even partially, in any other kind of
media, including magazines or guides.

   Copyrights and trademarks of this game, its characters, and the television
shows it refers to are property of their respective owners. Bandai Wonderswan
is a trademark of Bandai Co., Ltd..



TABLE OF CONTENTS------------------------------------------------------------


 I    - Gameplay Details
           1 - Pilot Status
           2 - Unit Status
           3 - Weapon Status
           4 - Upgrading
           5 - Items
           6 - Special Pilot Skills
           7 - Special Robot Skills
           8 - Seishins
 II   - Walkthrough
 III  - Help Needed
 IV   - Contact Information 
 V    - Version History
 VI   - Credits



GAMEPLAY DETAILS-------------------------------------------------------------


   Since this is really not different from any other Super Robot Taisen game,
most of you probably are already familiar with the mechanics of it. So, this
is here pretty much for filler - not very helpful those who have never played
anything like this...


1 - Pilot Status
----------------

   Each pilot has a given set of skills and characteristics, which determines
his/her effectiveness in battle. A pilot's status is unique (no two different
pilots have exactly the same skills), and should be considered when assigning
robots to each pilot.


 Kakutou (Fighting)  The pilot skill when using fighting attacks. The higher
                     it is, the more damaging his/her fighting attacks are.

 Shageki (Shooting)  The pilot skill when using shooting attacks. The higher
                     it is, the more damaging his/her shooting attacks are.

 Kaihi   (Evade)     Shows the pilot's dodging skill. Higher values indicate
                     your pilot has better chances to escape enemy attacks.

 Meichuu (Aiming)    The pilot's aiming skill - the higher it is, the easier
                     it is for a pilot to hit an enemy.

 Han'nou (Response)  A measure of the pilot's reflexes. Higher values affect
                     both the pilot's hit and evade rates positively.

 Giryou  (Skill)     The pilot's competency. Higher values make it easier to
                     make critical hits and avoid receiving them.


   Both Aiming and Evade are presented in a "XXX + XX" format. Only the first
number applies to the pilot; the second is the robot's agility, which changes
according to the robot the pilot is boarding.



2 - Unit Status
---------------

   Like pilots, robots and ships have certain skills and characteristics that
differentiate them from each other.


 HP    (Hit Points)  The unit's "life meter". The higher the value, the more
                     damage the unit can suffer before being destroyed.

 EN      (Energy)    The unit's "fuel meter". You spend 1 EN for each square
                     moved in the sky. Some attacks also consume energy when
                     used. Each unit recovers 5 EN every turn.

 Terrain Grades      The unit's efficiency in each terrain (sky, ground, sea
                     and space), rated from "A" to "D", where "A" means this
                     is where the unit acts to its full potential.

 Size                The unit's size, from "S" (small) to "LL" (very large).
                     Smaller units have better chances to dodge attacks.

 Shuuri  (Repair)    The money necessary to repair the unit if destroyed.
                     If you destroy an enemy robot, you receive half of its
                     repair value as a reward.

 Idouryoku           The amount of squares this unit can cover in one single
         (Mobility)  move.

 Undousei (Agility)  Added to the pilot aim and evade values, determines the 
                     unit's chance to hit enemies and avoid enemy attacks.

 Soukou  (Armor)     The unit's armor strenght. Higher armor means the robot
                     will sustain less damage on every attack suffered.

 Genkai  (Limit)     The unit's maximum sustainable response.
                     If a pilot's hit or evade rate (unit agility included)
                     is higher than the unit's Limit, the exceeding values
                     are disconsidered.
                     (i.e.: if a unit's limit is 350 and the pilot's hit
                     rate is 400, then in effect the pilot's hit rate is
                     350, because the unit can't stand more than this.)



3 - Weapon Status
-----------------

   Each of the weapons has characteristics of their own as well, which deter-
mine the amount of damage inflicted to their targets, the chance they have to
hit the enemy, et cetera.


 Buki Na             The attack's name; the symbol to the left indicates its
 (Weapon Name)       type: a target-like icon means it is a shooting weapon,
                     while a fist indicates it is a fighting attack.

                     A (P) symbol after the name indicates the attack can be
                     used after the unit moved; (B) indicates a beam weapon
                     (affectable by anti-beam measures). An (M) symbol means
                     it's a MAP weapon, able to hit several enemies at once.

 Kougeki (Attack)    The attack's strenght. Obviously, the higher it is, the
                     more damage the weapon can cause.

 Shatei  (Range)     The attack's minimum and maximum ranges, in squares. If
                     its range is 1, the attack is considered "short-range";
                     all others are "long-range".

 Meichuu (Hit)       A percent bonus to your robot's hit rate. Basically, an
                     attack with +10 Meichuu has 15% more chance to hit than
                     one with a -5 Meichuu value.

 Zandan              The amount of ammo available to this attack. Dashes in-
 (Remaining Shots)   dicate the weapon has no ammo limitations.

 Terrain Grades      The attack's efficiency on each terrain. A dash indica-
                     tes the attack can't hit enemies on that terrain.

 Hitsuyou Kiryoku    A pilot must gather a specific amount of kiryoku to use
 (Required Vitality) certain attacks. Until the pilot has at least this much
                     kiryoku, the attack is not available.

 Hitsuyou EN         Some attacks spend a certain amount of energy each time
 (Required Energy)   they are used. If that's the case, the amount it spends
                     is displayed here.

 Required Skill      The special pilot skill necessary to use this attack.
                     Only Newtype or SeiSenshi may be required to perform
                     attacks, and very few attacks need them - those that
                     do, however, are very powerful.
                     Notice some attacks may also require a certain level to
                     this skill (i.e.: Hyper Aura Giri needs SeiSenshi Lv3).

 Critical            A bonus to the unit's critical hit rate. Simply put, an
                     attack with +20% has 20% more chance to make a critical
                     hit than an attack with +0% Critical.


   Making good use of your weapons is essential in this game. For example, an
attack with high energy comsumption should be saved for the strongest enemies
- these attacks are often the most powerful and cannot be used constantly.



4 - Upgrading
-------------

   During every intermission, you can upgrade your robots' status and weapons
to improve their performance. Each upgrade costs money, and you are given the
choice of upgrading several different aspects of each robot.

   The more upgrades you do on a unit's given characteristic, the more expen-
sive it becomes. Each category can be upgraded up to ten times. The following
tables show the prices charged for each upgrade, as well as the upgrading va-
lue you get for each category, each time (in parenthesis).


          |                               Costs
          |       1            2            3            4            5
 HP       |  $2000 (200)  $4000 (200)  $6000 (200)  $8000 (200) $10000 (200)
 EN       |  $1000 ( 10)  $1500 ( 10)  $1500 ( 10)  $2000 ( 10)  $2000 ( 10)
 Agility  |  $5000 (  5)  $8000 (  5) $10000 (  5) $12000 (  5) $15000 (  5)
 Armor    |  $3000 (100)  $5000 (100)  $8000 (100) $10000 (100) $15000 (100)
 Limit    |  $1000 ( 10)  $1500 ( 10)  $1500 ( 10)  $2000 ( 10)  $2000 ( 10)


          |                               Costs
          |       6            7            8            9           10
 HP       | $18000 (200) $20000 (200) $25000 (200) $30000 (200) $35000 (200)
 EN       |  $5000 ( 20) $10000 ( 20) $15000 ( 20) $20000 ( 20) $30000 ( 20)
 Agility  | $20000 (  5) $24000 (  5) $28000 (  5) $32000 (  5) $37000 (  5)
 Armor    | $23000 (150) $27000 (150) $30000 (150) $32000 (150) $33000 (200)
 Limit    |  $5000 ( 20) $10000 ( 20) $10000 ( 20) $10000 ( 20) $10000 ( 20)


   If you upgrade all status categories of one unit to the max, you are awar-
ded an extra prize - you can give your unit one of the following bonuses:


 - Change its terrain grading to "A" in any terrain you choose;
 - Increase its Mobility by 1 point;
 - Increase its Max HP by 2000 points;
 - Increase its Max Energy by 150 points;
 - Increase its Agility by 20 points;
 - Increase its Armor by 500 points.


   Weapons too can be upgraded, but you can only increase their attack power.
There are three different price tables: a cheaper one for weaker attacks, one
table for medium-powered weapons, and another one for stronger moves.


          |                               Costs
          |       1            2            3            4            5
 Weaker   |  $2000 (100)  $4000 (100)  $6000 (150)  $8000 (150) $10000 (150)
 Medium   |  $4000 (100)  $8000 (100) $12000 (150) $16000 (150) $20000 (150)
 Strong   |  $5000 (100) $10000 (100) $15000 (150) $20000 (150) $25000 (200)


          |                               Costs
          |       6            7            8            9           10
 Weaker   | $14000 (150) $26000 (150) $35000 (150) $40000 (200) $45000 (200)
 Medium   | $24000 (150) $38000 (200) $45000 (200) $55000 (200) $65000 (300)
 Strong   | $35000 (200) $50000 (200) $60000 (200) $70000 (300) $80000 (300)


   So, strong weapons are extremely expensive to upgrade, but also yield more
value, especialy in the higher end. Therefore, it is important to choose with
care what weapons and units to upgrade, since it is bound to cost a lot.



5 - Items
---------

   Items are external parts or accessories that can be attached to your units
in order to improve their performance, add new functionality or provide HP or
energy refills.

   Items are awarded as stage clear bonuses after each scenario is completed.
You will also receive one extra item once you finish all 'choice' stages (the
scenarios you can pick in any order you want), and another one when you clear
an entire scene; the extra items you receive are determined by which scenario
you left for last. So, postponing certain scenarios helps you have a slightly
better item collection.

   At the walkthrough, I will describe, at each scenario, the extra items you
will receive if you leave that stage for last (under the "If Last" line). The
items you'll be given to you regardless of the order you choose are marked on
the 'Always' line on each scenario.

   Now, a brief description of all items in the game:


 Booster                Mobility + 1
 Mega Booster           Mobility + 2
 Magnet Coating         Agility + 5, Limit + 20
 BioSensor              Agility + 10, Limit + 15
 Psycho Frame           Agility + 15, Limit + 30
 Apogee Motor           Mobility + 1, Agility + 5
 Haro                   Mobility + 2, Agility + 20, Limit + 30
 Chobham Armor          Max HP + 500, Armor + 150
 Chou Goukin Z          Max HP + 1000, Armor + 300
 Chou Goukin New-Z      Max HP + 1500, Armor + 400
 Large Generator        Max EN + 100
 Repair Kit S           Heals all HP. Once used, it is discarded
 Propellant Tank S      Refills 200 EN. Once used, it is discarded
 Minovsky Craft         Turns any unit into an Air/Ground type. Also changes
                        its "air" grade to "A"
 High Efficiency Radar  Increases all weapon's max range by 1.
                        (except short-range and MAP weapons)
 Seishin Energy Device  Starting kiryoku + 5
 Anti-Beam Coating      Equips unit with Beam Coat.
 V-Up Unit              Version up unit. Increases all weapons' attack power


   For V-Up Units the attack power increase the unit gets depends on how many
item slots it has:


                      1 Item Slot : attack power + 100
                      2 Item Slots: attack power + 200
                      3 Item Slots: attack power + 400
                      4 Item Slots: attack power + 800


   Usually, units with four item slots are older, weaker units, which can get
an extra life via V-Up Units; for example, NT-1 Alex and Ez-8. As such, these
units can be good choices even in later levels, as their V-Upped attack power
may actually surpass those of newer units.



6 - Special Pilot Skills
------------------------

   Most pilots have special skills, which are displayed in the "Pilot Status"
screen. You can't choose when to use these skills: either they are constantly
active or the game decides when they are activated.

   In this game there are two kinds of pilot skills: natural and learned. Na-
tural skills are given to each pilot by the game itself, and cannot be obtai-
ned any other way. These are the natural skills available:


 Newtype                Mobile suit pilots only.
                        - Allows the pilot to use newtype weapons.
                        - Increases the pilot's hit and evade rates.
                          (the higher the level, the better the bonus)
                        - When the pilot reaches Newtype Level 7 or higher,
                          'Funnels' and 'Bits' have their range increased.
                          (the higher the level, the higher the range bonus)

 Kyouka Ningen          Mobile suit pilots only. Same effect as newtype.
 (Enhanced Human)

 SeiSenshi              Aura Battler pilots only.
 (Holy Warrior)         - Allows the pilot to use SeiSenshi weapons.
                        - Increases the power of 'Hyper Aura Giri'
                          (attack power bonus = Level number x 200)

 Bougyo (Defense)       - Allows the pilot to defend incoming attacks with a
                          shield (if the unit has it), reducing the suffered
                          damage by half.
                        - If the robot carries a melee weapon, the pilot can
                          slash incoming solid attacks (missiles or funnels,
                          for example) or fence off melee attacks.
                        The level of this skill indicates the frequency it's
                        activated (frequency = level number / 16).

 Sokodikara             When a unit's HP is lower than 1/8 of its total, its
 (Potential)            chances of making a critical hit are increased by 50
                        percent points.

 Zouen (Support)        Allows the pilot to do support attacks/defenses.


   Learned skills are awarded to you when you clear a scenario in 11 turns or
less. The following table shows what skill you get according to the number of
turns spent:


              Turns                        Skill
           -------------------------------------------------------
            6 or less       ShuuchuuRyoku (Concentration Power)
                7                  SensouShin (War Heart)
                8                   Seishin Points + 20
                9                      Hit Rate + 20
               10                   Critical Rate + 20
               11                 Sokodikara (Potential)


   You can choose the pilot, subpilot, or faerie to assign your new skill to
among those who fought in the scenario you gained the skill at. These are the
available learned skills:


 ShuuchuuRyoku          All of the pilot's seishins have their Seishin Point
 (Concentration Power)  (SP) consumption reduced by 20%.

 SensouShin             Starting kiryoku + 5 (the pilot starts each scenario
 (War Heart)            with 105 ki instead of 100).

 Seishin Points + 20    Max SP + 20

 Hit Rate + 20          The pilot's hit rate rises by 20 percent points.

 Critical Rate + 20     His/Her critical rate rises by 20 percent points.

 Sokodikara             When a unit's HP is lower than 1/8 of its maximum,
 (Potential)            the chance of making a critical hit (damage x 1.5)
                        rises by 50 percent points.


   Notice Sokodikara is available both as a natural and a learned skill. Each
pilot has four slots to allocate skills at, and learned skills cannot replace
natural ones. Since pilots have up to three natural skills, allocating skills
wisely is necessary not to waste them.



7 - Special Robot Skills
------------------------

   Like pilots, some units have built-in capabilities. Unlike pilots, you can
choose when to use them or not, or they are constantly activated. The availa-
ble robot skills are:


 Bunshin (Branching)    If the pilot's kiryoku is 130 or more, the unit gets
                        a 50% chance to escape any enemy attack it fails to
                        evade.

 G-Vision               Getter Vision. Same as Bunshin (Getter 2 only).

 Mach SP                Mach Special. Same as Bunshin (Getter Liger only).

 Henkei (Transform)     Indicates the unit can transform.

 Bunri (Separation)     The unit can break down into a smaller unit (after
                        which it can't revert to its previous form).

 Beam Coat              An anti-beam measure that completely absorbs Beam
                        attacks meant to cause up to 1000 HP of damage, at
                        the expense of 5 EN. Stronger attacks can pierce
                        the coating, in which case the unit suffers the
                        exceeding damage.

 Aura Barrier           Anti-beam measure. Same as above, but fully absorbs
                        up to 3000 HP of damage.

 I-Field                Anti-beam measure. Same as above, but fully absorbs
                        up to 2000 HP of damage.

 HP Kaifuku             Every turn, the unit has a certain percentage of its
 (HP Healing)           HP healed ('Low' heals 10% and 'High' heals 30%).



8 - Seishins
------------

   Seishins are spells pilots can use in order to gain extra temporary skills
or simply help them survive through tough spots. When used, seishins spend SP
(Seishin Points), and the amount of SP consumed varies according to the spell
you are calling for.

   Each pilot has up to six seishins (out of 30), learned at computer-defined
levels. A pilot's max SP depends on one's level (the higher, the more SP) and
type (Super Robot pilots tend to have more SP than mobile suit ones).

   For each pilot there are five different possible seishin sets, assigned by
the game according to the personal information you inserted at the Wonderswan
'Personal Data' screen. During battles, the seishins available can be seen in
the "Seishin Lookup" menu, and are presented as follows:


    --------------------------------------------------------------------
   |                                                                    |
   |   Jibaku        Konjou        Mikiri      Datsuryoku      Hokyuu   |
   |  Teisatsu       Sogeki        Kenshin      Nekketsu         Ai     |
   |   Kasoku        Hicchuu        Kiai         Kakuran       Gekirei  |
   |   Tekagen       Shinrai       Kou-Un         Kobu         Saidou   |
   |  Hirameki       Teppeki      Shukufuku      Kakusei      Fukkatsu  |
   |  Shuuchuu       Doryoku      Do-Konjou     Tamashii       Kiseki   |
   |                                                                    |
    --------------------------------------------------------------------


 Jibaku     ("Self-destruct", 1 SP) The unit self-destructs and all adjacent
            units (allies included) suffer damage equal to the caster's
            current HP.

 Teisatsu   ("Reconaissance", 1 SP) Reveals a chosen enemy's status before
            you fight it.

 Kasoku     ("Acceleration", 5 SP) Mobility + 3 for the unit's next move.

 Tekagen    ("Consideration", 10 SP) Leaves the enemy with 10 HP if the
            attack is enough to defeat him/her. Only works if the enemy's
            skill is lower than your own.

 Hirameki   ("Flash", 15 SP) Perfect evade rate for the next battle.

 Shuuchuu   ("Concentration", 15 SP) Hit and evade rates +30% for one turn.

 Konjou     ("Will-power", 20 SP) Heals the caster's own HP by 30% of its
            max value.

 Sogeki     ("Sniping", 20 SP) For one turn, increases all weapons' max
            range by 2 squares (except short-range and MAP weapons).

 Hicchuu    ("Certain Hit", 25 SP) Perfect hit rate for one turn.
            Can be overridden by an opponent's Hirameki.

 Shinrai    ("Trust", 30 SP) Heals a chosen unit's HP by 30% of its max.

 Teppeki    ("Iron Wall", 30 SP) Armor value is doubled for one turn.

 Doryoku    ("Effort", 30 SP) The experience received at the next battle is
            doubled.

 Mikiri     ("Abandon", 30 SP) Hicchuu and Hirameki for one single battle.

 Kenshin    ("Devotion", 30 SP) Heals 10 SP of a chosen friendly unit.

 Kiai       ("Focus", 40 SP) Rises own kiryoku by 10 points.

 Kou-Un     ("Fortune", 40 SP) Doubles the money received at the next battle.

 Shukufuku  ("Blessing", 45 SP) Casts Kou-Un on a chosen friendly unit.

 Do-Konjou  ("Great Will-power", 40 SP) Heals the caster's own HP completely.

 Datsuryoku ("Exhaustion", 40 SP) Reduces a chosen enemy unit's kiryoku by
            10 points.

 Nekketsu   ("Hot Blood", 40 SP) Doubles the damage inflicted by the next
            attack.

 Kakuran    ("Confuse", 50 SP) For one turn, all enemies have their hit rates
            reduced by half. Can be overridden by an opponent's Hicchuu.

 Kobu       ("Inspiration" 90 SP) All allied units have their kiryoku risen
            by 5 points.

 Kakusei    ("Awakening", 50 SP) Lets the caster move one extra time during
            the current turn.

 Tamashii   ("Spirit", 60 SP) Triples the damage inflicted by the next
            attack. Cannot be used in conjunction with Nekketsu.

 Hokyuu     ("Supply", 80 SP) Recovers a chosen unit's EN and ammo, but also
            reduces the receiving pilot's kiryoku by 10 points.

 Ai         ("Love", 70 SP) Heals 100% of all allied units' HP.

 Gekirei    ("Encouragement", 70 SP) Rises a chosen allied unit's kiryoku by
            10 points.

 Saidou     ("Move Again", 90 SP) Allows an already moved chosen unit to
            move again.

 Fukkatsu   ("Resurrection", 100 SP) Resurrects a chosen destroyed ally.

 Kiseki     ("Miracle", 100 SP) Same effect as casting Tamashii, Kasoku,
            Hirameki, Do-Konjou, Hicchuu, Kou-Un, and a triple Kiai at once.


   Usually, pilots of aggressive, attack-oriented units have seishins to rise
their battle effectiveness, while pilots of support units have seishins aimed
at healing allied units or hurting enemy stats.



WALKTHROUGH------------------------------------------------------------------


   Universal Century 00XX.

   The Earth Sphere was in chaos.


   After the One Year War, the official Zeon remnant hunters Titans ran out
of control. In the end, in the fight known as "Gryps War", Paptimus Scirocco
saw his ambition of seizing the entire Earth Sphere with Neo Zeon fouled by
Bright Noa's Argama Team.

   Underneath this war, there were those who still insisted on fighting...

   Dr. Hell, a scientist planning to conquer the confusion-ridden world;
   The tragic cyborgs created by human technology - Meganoids;
   Former inhabitants of the Earth, the underground Dinosaur Empire;
   And space's Muge Zorbados Empire in an attempt of conquering the cosmos.

   Thanks to the "Super Robots", machines boasting a literally immense power,
all these nearly-simultaneous disturbances ended in victory.


   ...but even so the Earth Sphere was in chaos.


   Just when everything seemed to have returned to normality, the Union Army
high command does a thoughtless armament curtailment. Immediately after that,

   a new invader, the Great King Vega-led Vega Alliance Army, enters;
   The once suppressed Axis - Neo Zeon - reincarnates;
   And the mysterious destroyer Guyzock starts moving.

   The storm of war is raging again, Earth in its very center. The events to
result from these successive incidents, and what "power" is in motion to drag
the entire universe into them... are, as of now, unknown to anyone.


   Universal Century 00XX.

   The place is the Earth surface: the Union Army Far East Division's "Beast
Battle Squad" Base. ...the story begins here.



Scene 1: "Accidents"
====================

 First:   Beast Battle Squad Base     ->  Scenario 1
 Choice:  Saotome Institute           ->  Scenario 2
 Choice:  Photon Power Laboratory     ->  Scenario 3
 Choice:  Science Fortress Laboratory ->  Scenario 4
 Choice:  Tokyo                       ->  Scenario 5
 Last:    Space Science Laboratory    ->  Scenario 6


   The Union's high command has always feared the possibility of facing some
runamuck major force, and the Titans, shielded by their official Zeon-remnant
hunters position, were undeniably successful in forcing both Earth and space
into obedience. Therefore, until all pending questions about their demise are
answered, the Beast Battle Squad will spend its time in a remote base.

   After the war, the Argama Team was dissolved, under the allegation it was
'overconcentrating power'. Now, given only a new model battleship and a small
battle power, it will probably soon have its 'independent raid squad' status
restored.

   Because Dr. Hell's Earth conquest plan was omitted, it's like his attacks
never happened, and the two Mazinger robots that defeated him and the Machine
Beast Army were sent to museums. Considering Dancouga is gathering dust in a
deck right now, a museum isn't such a bad fate - if you overlook the fact the
control over both Mazingers was, in effect, taken from the civilian research
facilities that built them.

   Chris (now promoted from test pilot to a regular one) and Bernie too were
sent to the Beast Battle Squad base, where they mantain their mobile suits in
shape, waiting for a deployment opportunity that may never come. Not fond of
the Union's mechanics, Bernie still rides the Zaku Kai and keeps his personal
files obscure to avoid problems.

                                    ****

   Chief Hadzuki is expecting three new pilots to arrive today: the first is
Kyousuke Nanbu, a test pilot just promoted into regular service. He rides the
'Alteisen', also known as the 'Gespenst Type-3 (Mk-III)' - the prototype for
a mass-production model army mech that never made it to the factories because
it was deemed to lack versatility.

   The second pilot is former Argama Team member Fa Yuiry. Kamille Vidan was
wounded when fighting the Titans, and she came to the Earth surface to follow
his treatment. Just as his condition started to improve, he was moved out to
a facility in Jaburo, while she was assigned to the Far East Division.

   Finally, Shiro Amada from the Kojima Batallion's '08th MS Team' - a group
famous for having received low-spec, ground-type Gundam models assembled from
surplus parts of the First Gundam. During the last war, Shiro was discharged
from active duty due to suspicions of "association" with enemies, but Hadzuki
pulled him out of ostracism - Shiro doesn't strike him as a traitor, and the
current situation doesn't allow him the luxury of refusing any possible help.
Besides, commanding the Beast Battle Squad gave Hadzuki plenty of experience
in handling the army's problem children...

                                    ****

   Informed about an apparent disarray in Jaburo, Norris imagines his newly-
received orders to attack Earth Union local bases are meant to take advantage
of this situation, but still fails to understand what exactly is going on.

   Ginius calls for an attack on Japan and plans to join the raid himself in
a prototype, until Norris talks him out of it: the local weather doesn't help
Ginius' old heart wound, and a small island local base is unlikely to demand
new model mechs...

                                    ****

   If it wasn't for Grendizer's power, the Argama Team (or Londo Bell) would
have been overwhelmed by the Vega Alliance Army long ago. Bright is unable to
ask for reinforcements (because the Zeon surface forces are jamming Jaburo's
communications, he thinks) and, even if he could, it probably wouldn't make a
difference anyway: the military simply doesn't have enough pilots (like you,
Bright only received an ex-test pilot so far).

   Given the situation, Hadzuki proposes sending Dancouga to the Londo Bell,
but Bright can't accept it because of jurisdiction issues: without contacting
Jaburo, they can't get permissions to reassign troops. On the other hand, it
would certainly be a major help for the Argama: right now, only Grendizer can
destroy a Saucer Beast alone.

   Bright would get in trouble for bringing in unauthorized reinforcements -
but what if it was the Beast Battle Squad who left to space by its own? After
all, even Shinobu admits his team isn't new to disobeying orders.

   In return for the much needed help, Bright shares a piece of information
with Hadzuki: the newbie pilots assigned to the Gundoll and Londo Bell may be
both survivors of 'that incident'. The decision of having them promoted into
regular service may have no particular meaning (after all, they are both good
pilots), but having it right in the middle of the armament reduction program
left Bright suspicious - that's something he and Hadzuki will have to look at
in the future.

                                    ****

   While en route to Japan, Shiro took a quick stop at the Science Museum to
see the legendary Mazingers, but Mazinger Z wasn't there: it had been sent to
the Photon Power Laboratory for maintenance. What he couldn't understand was
why couldn't the maintenance be done at the museum... Maybe Professor Yumi is
already preparing something?

   Transmissions report a new unidentified army appearing at Tokyo. It seems
to have come from a very high altitude, maybe the space - but Bright reported
no enemies there other than the Vega Alliance... Unable to contact the still
unreachable Jaburo, Hadzuki decides to launch without orders in order to save
the city: the 'dragon' is powering up again...!



Scenario 1 (Beast Battle Squad Base) - "The Flying Dragon in the Clouds"
------------------------------------------------------------------------
24x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 7 (all available units)
Initial Enemy Formation: Gouf Custom [Norris] Lv12
                         Kampfer Lv05 x01
                         Hi-Gogg Lv05 x01
                         Kampfer Lv04 x01
                         Hi-Gogg Lv04 x03
                         Zaku Kai Lv04 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: Repair Kit S, Booster
Events: Gouf Custom's HP below 30% - Norris leaves


   Although the Beast Battle Squad is ready to leave, Hadzuki warns Dancouga
must take off from a proper installation - while it would normally be able to
launch into space by itself, Dancouga's current unregulated settings reduced
its capabilities to about 50% of its normal.

   As Norris attacks, he sees the 'Cyclops Team' tuned-up Zaku Kai among the
Union units - he had already heard of a traitor - and tries to call its pilot
back home; Bernie, however, refuses to leave the path he chose and thinks to
be right.

   Most enemies are weak and won't threat your units, but don't let them use
the water in their advantage (namely the Hi-Goggs: they're good there, you're
not) or you'll spend more turns than you really need. If you're not familiar
with the concept of support attack/defense, now is a good time to learn.

   Take care with the Kampfers (Chain Mine hurts!), but mostly with the Gouf
Custom - it can stand a beating. Norris runs away once his HP drops below 30%
(if possible, lower his HP to about 1800 and then have Dancouga hit him with
a Nekketsu-boosted attack to destroy the Gouf and collect the money).

   After the battle, Ryou expresses disappointment with the lesser firepower
Dancouga showed, for which Hadzuki blames Beast Battle Squad itself. From now
on, they better never neglect their units' maintenance again - if they won't
be able to stand up to the Vega Alliance Army, Dancouga may as well stay here
on Earth. Sara calms him down, saying they too don't feel like being laughed
at by the rest of the Londo Bell.

   [NOTE: if you intend to export your game to Episode 2, make sure Dancouga
has *all its stats and weapons* upgraded (at least one level each) before you
reach Scenario 6.]

   Transmissions from both the Saotome Institute and Photon Power Laboratory
express their wish to help the Gundoll Team's efforts - yes, the Super Robots
of the previous wars will join you! The bad news are, the new enemies landed
on Tokyo are reported to be a considerably large force. So, in order to avoid
confronting an enemy you currently have slim chances of defeating, you would
have to take a longer route around them.



Scenario 2 (Saotome Institute) - "If Three Hearts Become One"
-------------------------------------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Protect your base
Player Units: 12 (Getter Robo, Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: Mechasaurus Shigu Lv07 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv07 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv07 x01
                         Mechasaurus Bado Lv07 x01
                         Mechasaurus Shigu Lv06 x01
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv06 x01
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv06 x02
                         Mechasaurus Bado Lv06 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv07 x01 (optional)
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv07 x01 (optional)
                         Mechasaurus Bado Lv07 x01 (optional)
                         Mechasaurus Shigu Lv06 x01 (optional)
Enemy Reinforcements: Mecha Ikkaku-Ki Lv07 x02
                      Mecha Ikkaku-Ki Lv06 x01
                      Mecha Ikkaku-Ki Lv07 x02 (optional)
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Magnet Coating
              If Last: Chobham Armor (after scenario end)
                       Mega Booster (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive


   The Saotome Institute was allowed to keep Getter Robo as a tool to better
research the Getter Beam. However, this also implies there are no reasons for
it to ever come out of the Institute building - in this sense, its situation
isn't any better than the museum-confined Mazingers'.

   The enemies attacking the Institute are from the Dinosaur Empire, another
enemy from the past rising... If any enemy reaches the Saotome Institute, you
lose automatically, so don't get too far from it (if you chose this scenario
as last, there are four extra enemies).

   These Mechasaurus are more resistant than the enemies you battled before,
and therefore demand stronger attacks to suffer reasonable damage - use super
robots and/or support attacks to defeat them faster. As you approach Turn 3,
move some units back to the Saotome Insitute, because...

   On Turn 3, some more enemies appear (right of the Saotome Institute), but
they are unlike any Mechasaurus seen before: indeed, a configuration analysis
confirms these are not from Dinosaur Empire - or any group Professor Saotome
could identify (if you play this scenario as last, there are two more enemies
among the reinforcements).

   To fight these enemy reinforcements, have your units stand on the Saotome
Institute itself - they do walk around you to reach the building. By now, not
many more enemies should remain, and standing on the building gives a little
HP and energy refill to your people, so it's fairly easy.



Scenario 3 (Photon Power Laboratory) - "Iron Castle"
----------------------------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 11 (Mazinger Z, Aphrodi A, BozBorot, Gundoll + 7)
Initial Enemy Formation: Flying Fortress Ghoul [Ashura] Lv12
                         Machine Beast Toros D7 Lv07 x02
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv07 x02
                         Machine Beast Garada K7 Lv07 x04
                         Machine Beast Toros D7 Lv06 x02
                         Machine Beast Garada K7 Lv06 x02
Enemy Reinforcements: Dr. Hell [Dr. Hell] Lv??
                      Battle Beast Zugarl Lv07 x03
                      Battle Beast Zugarl Lv06 x01
                      Battle Beast Zugarl Lv06 x02 (optional)
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Chobham Armor
              If Last: Cartridge (after scenario end)
                       Booster (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
                              Dr. Hell leaves
        Flying Fortress Ghoul's HP below 30% - Ashura leaves


   Already joined by the Mazinger Team, Hadzuki complements Professor Yumi's
efforts in keeping his super robots in top shape, having them undergo regular
maintenances even after they were sent to a museum.

   Knowing the Gundoll Team would surely show up here sooner or later, Baron
Ashura has been waiting nearby until now. Once thought to be dead, he says he
refuses to die before defeating Kouji.

   It's easier to divide your team in two groups and walk around the forest,
even if entering the woods rises your guys' defense a little. As you approach
Turn 3, move a few strong units to above the laboratory, because...

   On Turn 3 Dr. Hell too (re)appears, bringing in reinforcements for Ashura
- he himself won't stay. With another 'presumed dead' enemy showing up, Kouji
comments now only Count Brocken needs to 'ressuscitate'... to which Dr. Hell
responds Brocken *is* alive too, just working elsewhere. [NOTE: if you choose
this scenario as last, there are two more Zugarls among the enemies.]

   The Ghoul should be fought with care, as it can leave many of your robots
half dead, or worse. Use seishins like Nekketsu and support attacks to weaken
it faster, keeping in mind Ashura runs away once his HP drops below 30% - to
avoid this, wear him to about 5000 HP and then throw a Nekketsu-powered super
robot hissatsu to destroy him before he gets to escape (beating the Ghoul is
worth a lot of money).

   All at the same time, the Zeon surface forces, Dr.Hell and the mysterious
invaders are in the move, and that's just on the Earth surface... While Shiro
wonders what's next, Kouji remains confident he can defeat all these enemies
and any others that show up.



Scenario 4 (Science Fortress Laboratory) - "Heart of Justice, Fire On"
----------------------------------------------------------------------

   This scenario changes depending on whether you have cleared Scenario 5 or
not. If you haven't cleared Scenario 5 yet, you will be sent to Scenario 4-1.
Otherwise, go to Scenario 4-2.



Scenario 4-1 (Science Fortress Laboratory) - "Heart of Justice, Fire On"
------------------------------------------------------------------------
24x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 13 (Great Mazinger, Byuunas A, Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv07 x02
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv07 x04
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv07 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv06 x01
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv06 x02
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv06 x01
Enemy Reinforcements: Hi-Gogg Lv07 x02
                      Agguguy Lv07 x02
                      Hi-Gogg Lv06 x01
                      Agguguy Lv06 x01
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Mega Booster
Events: Turn 3, Player Phase - Great Mazinger, Byuunas A appear
        Six or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements arrive


   The Darkness Great General's offensive on the Science Fortress Laboratory
is interrupted by the Gundoll appearing much earlier than expected. Seeing no
more chances of success, the General decides to run away and let his minions
take care of the fight.

   Send a few fast, good units to the laboratory to get started on the enemy
units there, while leaving the mainland machine beasts for your slower robots
to handle - you don't need to send many units to the lab, as...

   Turns out Great Mazinger and Byuunas A had already been pulled out of the
museum they were in and sent to the Science Fortress Laboratory, but a little
adjustment was needed to put them in fighting conditions - your interference
bought just enough time for Tetsuya and Jun to complete these adjustments and
take off on Turn 3.

   Once there are six or less machine beasts left, more enemies appear: this
time, amphibious mobile suits following some reports the new Earth Union Army
mechs would appear here (but not expecting someone would already be fighting
here). Unfortunately, unless you already have Getter Robo, none of your units
is decent on water, so you'll need support attacks more than ever.

   After the battle, Tetsuya can only wonder what did Darkness Great General
want from this raid, and seeing him control machine beasts suggests he may be
behind something bigger, in association with Dr. Hell and Baron Ashura.

   Hadzuki wished he had more time to investigate the enemy's true identity,
but right now amassing battle power is the priority for the Gundoll Team, and
after that you won't really have much more to do other than returning to the
beginning, since you still can't talk to Jaburo.



Scenario 4-2 (Science Fortress Laboratory) - "Heart of Justice, Fire On"
------------------------------------------------------------------------
24x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 12 (Gundoll + 11)
Initial Enemy Formation: Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv07 x02
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv07 x04
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv07 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv06 x01
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv06 x02
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv06 x01
Enemy Reinforcements: Hi-Gogg Lv07 x02
                      Agguguy Lv07 x02
                      Hi-Gogg Lv06 x01
                      Agguguy Lv06 x01
                      Hi-Gogg Lv07 x01 (optional)
                      Agguguy Lv06 x01 (optional)
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Mega Booster
              If Last: Repair Kit (after scenario end)
                       Apogee Motor (after scene end)
Events: Six or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements arrive


   Without Great Mazinger to protect it, the Science Fortress Laboratory was
quickly beaten by the Darkness Great General, who celebrates with no apparent
reason - after all, Great and Byuunas A are still intact and ready to fight.
Feeling guilty for delaying Tetsuya, the Zanbot Team volunteers to pursue the
now escaping General, but Tetsuya prefers to just beat the remaining enemies
before they damage the Lab even further.

   Send all your units towards the Science Fortress Laboratory, ignoring the
Zugarls to the sides (they come your way by themselves on Turn 2 anyway). The
bridge leading to the lab will bottleneck you if you don't keep on pushing -
have the faster units attack the Genovas on the lab and leave the Zens behind
for the rest to defeat.

   Once there are six or less machine beasts left, more enemies appear: this
time, Zeon amphibious mobile suits following reports the new Earth Union Army
mechs would appear here (but not expecting someone would already be fighting
them). Unfortunately, unless you already have Getter Robo, none of your units
is decent on water, so you'll need support attacks more than ever. [NOTE: if
you choose this scenario as last, two extra mobile suits enter.]

   After the battle, Tetsuya can only wonder what did Darkness Great General
gain from this raid, and seeing him control machine beasts suggests he may be
behind something bigger, in association with Dr. Hell and Baron Ashura.

   Hadzuki wished he had more time to investigate the enemy's true identity,
but right now amassing battle power is the priority for the Gundoll Team, and
after that you won't really have much more to do other than returning to the
beginning, since you still can't reach Jaburo.



Scenario 5 (Tokyo) - "The Shape of Justice, a Giant Robot"
----------------------------------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 12 (Zanbot 3, Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: Bandock [Butcher] Lv12
                         MechaBoost Tracid Lv07 x02
                         MechaBoost Gabitan Lv07 x06
                         MechaBoost Tracid Lv06 x04
                         MechaBoost Gabitan Lv06 x04
                         MechaBoost Gabitan Lv07 x03 (optional)
                         MechaBoost Gabitan Lv06 x02 (optional)
Enemy Reinforcements: Rain X1 Lv07 x02
                      Battle Beast Zugarl Lv07 x01
                      Machine Beast Garada K7 Lv07 x01
                      Battle Beast Zugarl Lv06 x01
                      Machine Beast Garada K7 Lv06 x01
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, Apogee Motor
              If Last: Booster (after scenario end)
                       Anti-Beam Coating (after scene end)
Events: Turn 2, Player Phase - Great Mazinger, Byuunas A appear (optional)
                               Enemy Reinforcements arrive (optional)
        Turn 3, Player Phase - Gundoll Team sortie


   Given the resistance he faced in space, Killer the Butcher expected Earth
itself to be a truly impressive world, but it's pretty disapponting so far...
Because Zanbot 3's pilots Kappei, Uchuuta and Keiko criticized Guyzock's odd
looks, Butcher launches a ton of MechaBoosts to crush them with sheer numbers
(if you choose this stage as last, Butcher launches five more units).

   Land Zanbot 3 on the buildings to improve its defense, and you'll have no
problems with the Gabitans - they almost won't hurt you, while you'll be able
to take them down with three hits each (and less as you gather kiryoku).

   If you have not cleared Scenario 4 yet, on Turn 2 Tetsuya and Jun come to
help, but machine beasts arrive right next - between the space invaders whose
goals they can't understand and the return of yesteryear enemies, things are
getting troublesome, but Tetsuya says he and 'the other Mazinger pilot' faced
and suceeded in much worse situations.

   The Gundoll Team appears on Turn 3. Surprised at first to see children in
that 'crescent moon robot', Hadzuki learns the Zanbot Team are all members of
the Jin Family in a mission to save the Earth from "Guyzock", and calls them
into his team - just what they were planning to do anyway.

   Of the enemies, the Tracids are a little tough, but the Bandock is by far
the worst: with nothing but strong attacks (including a MAP weapon he uses if
two or more of your units line up before him) and 25000 HP, it can take tons
of hits before falling. You'll need to use Nekketsu-powered super robots' top
moves (especially if you're playing this stage as first, and therefore don't
have many super robots).

   Unable to directly contact you, Keiko's grandfather Heizaemon had to call
the Saotome Institute to ask Hadzuki not to start anything before they have a
chance to talk. Until then, Zanbot 3 is instructed to join the Gundoll Team.
Hadzuki knows the situation leaves him little choice, but isn't happy to drag
children into a war - something the Argama Team often had to do in the past,
Fa remembers.



Scenario 6 (Space Science Laboratory) - "Lifting Wings, Landed Wings"
---------------------------------------------------------------------
40x32, Surface
Goal: Protect your base until takeoff
Player Units: 13 (Kuroshishi, Bakuryuu, Hourai-Ou, Zanbot 3, Gundoll + 8)</pre><pre id="faqspan-2">
Initial Enemy Formation: Gouf Custom [Norris] Lv14
                         Zssa Lv09 x01
                         Kampfer Lv09 x02
                         Hi-Gogg Lv09 x01
                         Agguguy Lv09 x02
                         Kampfer Lv08 x02
                         Hi-Gogg Lv08 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Bandock [Butcher] Lv14
                          MechaBoost Tracid Lv09 x03
                          MechaBoost Tracid Lv08 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Banks Lv09 x01
                          Sherman Lv09 x01
                          Banks Lv08 x02
                          Sherman Lv08 x01
NPC Units: Elshank [Romina] Lv08
           Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv40
Clear Bonus - Always: Repair Kit S, Magnet Coating, $20000
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Turn 5, Player Phase -  HLV launches
         (or Bandock destroyed) Butcher, Zanbot 3 leave
        Turn 6, Player Phase - Kuroshishi, Bakuryuu, Hourai-Ou,
                               Elshank appear
                               Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
        Turn 7, Player Phase - Tobikage appears


   From talking with the Zanbot Team's grandfather Heizaemon, Hadzuki learns
these three average-looking kids descend from aliens that came centuries ago,
from a planet 47 light years away... If you consider even nowadays the Earth
still hides so many unfamiliar armies, imagining aliens slipped in undetected
isn't so unreasonable.

   Speaking of aliens, Tetsuya wonders how are Duke and the Londo Bell doing
in space: Duke once mentioned an invasion from Planet Vega, and the 'Guyzock'
enemy you battled at Tokyo also came from outer space. In the end, your crew
can only agree the situation there is as messed up as here, but Shinobu tells
them not to worry about space - after all, Dancouga will soon be there.

   Bernie and Chris express their concern about how the Dinosaur Empire, the
Zeons, Dr. Hell and Guyzock attacked coordinatedly, but Shiro is particularly
worried about the Zeons - more specifically, the Gouf Custom battled earlier
and the woman he associates it with...

                                    ****

   At last able to contact the Gundoll, Bright reports his situation. Seeing
the Londo Bell in trouble, Hadzuki proposes sending a Mazinger unit alongside
the Beast Battle Squad - none of the enemy groups on the Earth surface seems
to outnumber the Gundoll Team by much, so Hadzuki can afford to share.

   After a brief talk, you must decide who to send away: Kouji and Sayaka or
Tetsuya and Jun (if you export your game to Part 2, the couple you chose will
appear on it). No matter who you choose, Boz is going too - the Gundoll Team
can get supplies from friendly laboratories or allied bases, but the isolated
Londo Bell can't do the same; therefore, the Borot and its 'resupply device'
will be useful for them even though that robot isn't space-fit.

                                    ****

   After the intermission, the Beast Battle Squad and others are prepared to
launch into space when Kappei takes off without permission - just in case the
enemies try to interfere, he says. While everybody berates his disobedience,
the enemy does attack: Norris noticed the Gundoll was behaving strangely, and
now he knows why.

   Unable to afford any delays, Hadzuki orders the Londo Bell reinforcements
to stay in the ship while the Gundoll holds the Zeons back. This means you'll
have to stop the enemies from invading the Space Science Laboratory for five
more minutes (five turns), until the HLV launches.

   The scattered Zeons aren't a threat, but their water units will take some
time. Always keep somebody close to the laboratory, because on Turn 3 Guyzock
appears again, now ordered to ensure your failure, just right of the lab.

   The MechaBoosts don't make defending the base any harder: like the Zeons,
they don't move towards the lab if they already have something to shoot on at
range. Besides, on Turn 5 the HLV takes off, freing you from having to guard
the building. Because Butcher too leaves to intercept the shuttle, the Zanbot
Team kisses you goodbye and launches to space as well - now Hadzuki feels he
shouldn't have sent so many units away...

   [NOTE: if you defeat the Bandock, the HLV launches immediately and Zanbot
3 leaves just the same. The advantage is, you get a heap of money and, if you
export your data to Part 2, you receive a nice V-Up Unit when Zanbot 3 meets
the Londo Bell there. But it's easier said than done: Butcher appears at Turn
3 and departs on 5 (leaving you only Turn 4 to defeat him), and runs away if
his HP drops below 7500 (30%).]

   On Turn 6, more visitors come from space - alone at space, the Londo Bell
just can't hold back so many invaders. Fortunately, these are friendly - Mars
pioneers trying to warn you about an upcoming invasion by the 'Zaboom' alien
army. Unfortunately, in doing so they also brought some of that alien army in
their tail...

   Send help to the newbies if you wish, but that's not really necessary, as
another unit shows up the next turn: 'Tobikage', a Lv40 ninja robot that will
thrash a few aliens before combining wih one of the three new units (whoever
has 110 kiryoku or more), forming a beast machine that lets you easily defeat
any remaining enemies.




Scene 2: "Japan"
================

 Choice:  Tokyo                       ->  Scenario 7
 Choice:  Mutron Research Laboratory  ->  Scenario 8
 Choice:  Iga Village                 ->  Scenario 9
 Choice:  Shinjuku                    ->  Scenario 10
 Last:    Above the Pacific Ocean     ->  Scenario 11


   Bright was told the 'paper crane-like' battleship was a scout vessel from
Zaboom, but that explanation doesn't feel right: for example, a reconaissance
ship would hardly do the repeated harsh maneuvers this one did. Still unsure
about what to do, Hadzuki doesn't tell he has the Elshank; instead, he claims
he lost track of it during the battle against its follower robots.

   If captured, that ship would help understanding some unexplained matters,
Bright says, but he has no time to worry about it right now: a new force, the
'Bangar Space Pirates', has appeared. The Londo Bell ran into them once but,
just like Guyzock, they refused any conversation attempts...

                                    ****

   The 'Mars Colony Base' was built from the ruins of the Meganoid citadel -
the Meganoids were cyborgs made by the bio-hi-technology expert Souzou Haran;
rebelled, they tried to force a final showdown at Mars by inflicting a great
destruction to the Earth's surface, but failed. They did, however, find their
end in the hands of Souzou's son Banjou Haran, who, after that, exploded the
robot he piloted.

   In a quest to save their home planet, Princess Romina Radorio, Damian and
Shaf traveled all the way here. After an emergency landing on Mars, they were
assisted by the local colonists, but this caused Zaboom to attack the colony
as well...  According to them, the colony leader Hazard Pasha associated with
the invaders, giving them control over the place. Then, Romina and colonists
Jou, Mike and Reny ran to Earth to get help.

   With its own handful of invaders, there's no way the Earth Army can spare
any help to Mars, and Romina too feels she shouldn't involve more people into
this. As the colonists prepare to leave, Hadzuki stops them: being wanted at
Mars, Romina's party must be arrested!

   Until Hazard's supposed treason is investigated, Hadzuki declares they're
all confined to the Gundoll, from where they can't come out unless permitted.
Now, what if, by some coincidence, the Gundoll Team's destinations happen to
be the same as Princess Romina's? (^^)

   In the meantime, the Space Science Laboratory's Professor Umon will store
the Elshank: he has a huge underground facility can easily hide the ship from
the army - in the past, Grendizer used to be hidden there.

                                    ****

   The last thing Shou remembers is he was dueling Garalia when their swords
crossed. He wakes up with Chum screaming, as the robot they are in is falling
straight to the ground. After regaining control and stabilizing, he realizes
they're no longer in Bistonwell - crossing his sword with Garalia's must have
combined and multiplied their auras, opening the aura road that brought them
to the surface (more specifically, Japan), he guesses.

   Garalia too was dragged into the surface; though Shou tries to argue this
isn't the time or place to fight, she still won't give up her duel. Ready for
battle, Chum calls Shou to defeat her - easy for her to say it.

                                    ****

   Once again, large unidentified mobile weapons appear: this time, not only
at Tokyo, but also at the Mutron Research Laboratory and Shinjuku - all three
places are at the Mie mountain area. Wondering what other important bases or
cities are located at this region, Hayato thinks of the Iga villages: home of
the famed Iga ninja clan, they may be of interest for Zaboom.

   Hearing the word 'ninja' leaves Princess Romina eager to see Iga too: she
came to Earth because a legend had her believe something called 'ninja' would
help her save her home planet. Who's going to tell her ninjas don't roam the
Earth anymore?...



Scenario 7 (Tokyo) - "Cross Fight!"
-----------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 13 (Dangaioh, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Bloody I [Gil] Lv16
                         Sky Tank Lv11 x08
                         Sky Tank Lv10 x06
Enemy Reinforcements: Mecha Hakkou Ki Lv11 x02
                      Mecha Ikkaku Ki Lv11 x02
                      Mechasaurus Shigu Lv11 x01
                      Mecha Hakkou Ki Lv10 x01
                      Mecha Ikkaku Ki Lv10 x01
                      Mechasaurus Shigu Lv10 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: Apogee Motor, Large Generator
              If Last: Cartridge (after scenario end)
                       Seishin Energy Device (after scene end)
Events: Turn 2, Player Phase - Dangaioh appears
        Bloody I defeated - Bloody II arrives
                            Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        Bloody II's HP below 30% - Gil leaves


   To attract one 'Mia Alice' into battle, Gil Bag uses a huge mobile weapon
to destroy Tokyo, and regards the Gundoll Team as nothing more than something
to kill time with until his target comes.

   The Sky Tanks have good attacks ('Hyper Napalm' is particularly painful),
but its main attack is a beam, meaning aura battlers or beam-coated units can
hold on easily (if they keep a distance). The Bloody I has 24000 HP and high
armor, so lure it out of the city before attacking (let it attack one of your
units, then take all units out of his range, so Gil moves after you). By the
way, try to save SP when fighting it.

   On Turn 2 four unknown fighters enter the field: Roll, Mia, Pai and Ranba
came to stop the Bangar Space Pirates from destroying Mia's home world Earth.
As they combine their mechs into super robot 'Dangaioh', the Gundoll doesn't
know whether they're friends or not, but right now anyone trying to fight the
Bloody is an ally.

   Once you defeat the Bloody I, the Dangaioh Team celebrates - but just for
a second: that thing had another mech in its core, the Bloody II. At the same
time, more enemies enter from the bottom of the screen: Dinosaur and Hundred
Devils Empires units reinforcing the Bangars?

   Compared to the first, the Bloody II is pretty weak: with 'only' 18000 HP
and not so armored, it's a lot easier to defeat (Gil leaves once his HP drops
below 30%), and the reinforcements too aren't hard.

   After the battle, now that this world is safe, the Dangaioh Team is ready
to drop Mia home and return to their own worlds... except she refuses to stay
and abandon her friends before their fight is over: after all, it takes four
pilots to make Dangaioh.

   Then, it's Hadzuki turn to stop their takeoff: a call from one Dr. Tarsan
told him about the Dangaioh Team, but the transmission fell before more could
be received. Interested in learning more about the Bangar Space Pirates, he
invites the Dangaioh Team to stay at the Gundoll at least until they can find
out what Tarsan was trying to tell.



Scenario 8 (Mutron Research Laboratory) - "Wake Up, Brave One"
--------------------------------------------------------------
32x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 13 (Raideen, Blueger, Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: Gante [Sharkin] Lv16
                         Giant Beast Madangar Lv11 x02
                         Gildeen Lv11 x01
                         Sky Tank Lv11 x04
                         Drome Lv11 x03
                         Gildeen Lv10 x04
                         Sky Tank Lv10 x02
                         Drome Lv10 x03
Enemy Reinforcements: Bloody I [Gil] Lv16
Clear Bonus - Always: Apogee Motor, Large Generator
              If Last: Cartridge (after scenario end)
                       Seishin Energy Device (after scene end)
Events: Turn 2, Player Phase - Gundoll Team sortie
        Turn 3, Player Phase - Raideen appears
        Turn 5, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive (optional)
        Bloody I defeated - Bloody II arrives


   With the world so confused, Prince Sharkin knows his 'Ghost Empire' won't
have a better opportunity to succeed any time soon, forcing him to hasten his
Earth conquest plans a little. As other ships appear, Sharkin's surprised to
see the humans deploy their defenses so quickly, but soon sees these are from
a rival army - could someone else know what the Mutron Lab hides?

   Although they've sent out a distress signal, rumors are something's wrong
with the army headquarters, so Jinguuji and Mari can only trust their Blueger
to hold the invaders until their friend Akira reaches the 'brave one'.

   Have the Blueger move south, in order to attract the Sky Tanks. On Turn 2
the Gundoll comes to the rescue (if you cleared Scenario 7, Dangaioh launches
automatically upon seeing Bangar); if you want, have a few good units weaken
the Sky Tanks, but most of your efforts should aim at the Ghost Empire.

   On Turn 3, Akira reaches the 'God Face Rock' and releases the 'brave one'
from inside it: 'Raideen', a super robot that, Hadzuki remembers, had a brief
participation on the previous war. If you had the Blueger lure the Sky Tanks
to the God Face Rock, Raideen should be able to fight the enemies immediately
(I don't like sending Raideen against the far away Ghost Empire, choosing to
have it mind the nearby Sky Tanks instead).

   Sharkin's Gante has 22000 HP, but can be defeated fairly easily by a good
super robot lineup, as they'll have enough time and enemies to amass kiryoku.
Notice the Gante's attacks have poor hit rate but are strong - just in case,
don't let weakened units near it.

   If you already cleared Scenario 7, Gil comes on Turn 5 (by the top center
part of the screen) to face Dangaioh once again. The Bloody I may be a little
bit stronger, but so are you: defeat it the same way you did before.

   After the battle, Akira reveals Raideen was created twelve thousand years
ago to prevent the dawn of the 'Demon Era' the Ghost Empire intends to build.
Raideen's services are offered to the Gundoll Team, but Hadzuki hesitates in
accepting a private army like Akira's 'Coplander Team' into his squad without
consulting his superiors, to which Jou remembers Hadzuki already welcomed in
everything from children to aliens - why mind the rules now?



Scenario 9 (Iga Village) - "Legend of the Lost Ninja"
-----------------------------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Defend the Kuroshishi
Player Units: 14 (Kuroshishi, Bakuryuu, Hourai-Ou, Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: Sherman Lv11 x04
                         Sherman Lv10 x04
Enemy Reinforcements: Skeleton [Ilbora] Lv16
                      Banks Lv11 x03
                      Sherman Lv11 x04
                      Banks Lv10 x03
                      Sherman Lv10 x02
NPC Units: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv44
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, Repair Kit S
              If Last: Chou Goukin Z (after scenario end)
                       Repair Kit S (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        Turn 5, Player Phase - Tobikage appears
        Skeleton's HP below 30% - Ilbora leaves


   The Gundoll takes Princess Romina to Iga in hope of convincing her ninjas
nowadays only exist in novels. While she wanders the village escorted by Jou,
Mike and Reny, the Gundoll pilots wonder how could Planet Sherma, some sixty
million light years away, know about ninjas that lived only in a small island
on Earth.

   Romina looks and looks, but eventually is forced to accept the fact there
are no ninjas here anymore. Disappointed, she's already returning to the ship
when Zaboom attacks: they've been hiding underground all the time. Jou takes
the princess into the Kuroshishi for her protection, though Reny feels he may
just be after an excuse to squeeze against her in the cockpit.

   You lose if the Kuroshishi's defeated, but the enemies won't particularly
aim at Jou, so don't worry about it. Use your longer range guns to weaken the
Shermans before they approach and make it easier to finish them when they're
close enough to counterattack. The Gundoll isn't so far, so this battle isn't
hard - yet.

   On Turn 3 (a lot) more enemies enter, led by traitor Ilbora Sarro, former
Chief of Guard for Romina and commander of the Elshank. Claiming he only sold
his soul to defeat Jou, he calls the Kuroshishi for a duel, but is surprised
to see Romina's inside it - that doesn't stop him from ordering all his units
to attack.

   As numerous as they may be, the Zabooms are not hard, and help comes your
way very soon - on Turn 5, Tobikage enters again, doing the same thing it did
the first time (destroy enemies for one turn, combine with one of your units
the next).

   As you might expect, the toughest enemy is the Skeleton: it has 22000 HP,
but his attacks aren't so bad. Besides, Ilbora leaves when his HP drops below
30% - any remaining enemies go away then too. Jou tries to chase him, but is
stopped by Romina, who still doesn't want to see Ilbora dead...



Scenario 10 (Shinjuku) - "Holy Warrior"
---------------------------------------
24x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 12 (Dunbine, Mazinger Z/Great Mazinger, Aphrodi A/Byuunas A,
                  Gundoll + 8)
Initial Enemy Formation: Vierres [Garalia] Lv16
                         Leprechaun Lv11 x01
                         Drumlo Lv11 x04
                         Vierres Lv10 x01
                         Leprechaun Lv10 x01
                         Drumlo Lv10 x05
Enemy Reinforcements: Einstknochen Lv14 x04
                      Einstknochen Lv13 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: Booster, Mega Booster
              If Last: BioSensor (after scenario end)
                       Magnet Coating (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Player Phase - Gundoll Team sortie
        Eight or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements arrive


   For all Garalia cares, the Earth surface, being Shou's homeland, is enemy
territory, and therefore should be destroyed just like Shou himself. He still
tries to tell it's more important to find out how did they come here but, as
other aura battlers appear, Shou sees the situation is even more complex than
he thought.

   It doesn't take more than a couple hits for the enemies to kill Shou, but
they don't have much of a hit rate against the Dunbine - if Shou has it, cast
ShuuChuu to lower their hit rate to almost zero and leave you safe. Whatever
you do, don't kill Garalia (don't even approach her, and she won't move).

   The Gundoll arrives on Turn 3, wondering what are these bug-like machines
doing here, and ends up joining Shou's side pretty much just because he's the
only earthling in this battle... the 'don't let the japanese guy get killed'
spirit also has your Mazinger Team jump off the ship.

   The aura battlers' barriers detain beams, and none of your current robots
has any beam weapon capable of piercing them - fortunately, most of your guys
also have other good, non-beam attacks (always place them in such a way they
can use these non-beam weapons - e.g. don't leave the Ez-8 too close to them,
or the NT-1 too far).

   Once there are eight or less opponents left, new enemies appear - strange
skeleton-like units not you nor Shou have ever seen before. Though she cannot
explain it, Chum senses something really nasty with these enemies and almost
freezes, while Kyousuke could swear they spoke to him. Not so sensitive, your
other pilots don't see what makes them so hard or why can't they simply beat
the hell out of them.

   Indeed, the Einstknochens are nothing super robots and/or support attacks
can't handle. You only need to be careful if any of your pilots is weakened -
their attacks are medium-powered and may very well push a worn unit down the
edge.

   If you defeat all enemies but Garalia, finding herself alone against lots
of surfacers leaves her a little more receptive to Shou's proposal of joining
efforts until they can figure out a way back to Bistonwell. In the meantime,
they have little options other than joining the Gundoll Team...



Scenario 11 (Above the Pacific Ocean) - "Two Newtypes"
------------------------------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 15 (Super Gundam, Re-GZ, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Gouf Custom [Norris] Lv20
                         Zssa Lv14 x02
                         Kampfer Lv14 x03
                         Zssa Lv13 x01
                         Hambrabi (MS) Lv13 x02
                         Kampfer Lv13 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Gaplant [Rozamia] Lv19
                          Hambrabi (MS) Lv14 x04
                          Gaplant (MS) Lv14 x01
                          Hambrabi (MS) Lv13 x02
                          Gaplant (MS) Lv13 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Apsalus [Inah] Lv20
                          Gaplant (MA) Lv15 x04
NPC Units: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv48
Clear Bonus - Always: V-Up Unit, Chobham Armor, $20000
Events: Turn 2, Player Phase - Gundoll Team sortie
        Turn 4, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Turn 6, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
                              Re-GZ appears
        Turn 7, Player Phase - Tobikage appears
        Apsalus' HP below 50% - Inah leaves


   If it wasn't for the faerie Chum Huau's presence, one would never believe
this tale of 'Bistonwell', the world 'between sea and land' where Garalia was
born and Shou Zama was somehow dragged into.

   As if this war wasn't already weird enough with all the aliens, now Chief
Hadzuki has to deal with other-dimension faeries and the suspect the Dangaioh
Team's members have extra-sensorial abilities...

                                    ****

   All the Dangaioh Team's four seem to have, at a certain point, lost their
memories, during which period they were 'prepared' by Dr. Tarsan. As human as
they all may seem, Roll Kran comes from Planet Ratesia and Ranba Nom is from
Planet Lilis. The only earthling in the team is Mia Alice, except, maybe, for
Pai Thunder - she still can't remember which world she came from.

   At last able to reestablish the connection with the Gundoll, Tarsan calls
the Dangaioh Team back, as the Bangars have put a prize on his head, and it's
easy to imagine they did the same with Roll and company. Right now, Dangaioh
still isn't at its best, and the team fears their presence may have the enemy
aim at the Gundoll, so they leave and return to Dr. Tarsan immediately.

                                    ****

   Ginius wants his little sister Inah to test pilot his prototype, trusting
its presence can change the war, despite the increasingly complex situation -
now they need to fight not only the Earth Union Army, but also aliens and an
expanding, still unknown enemy army.

   Near an institution at Jaburo's outskirts, Norris reports someone stole a
mobile suit and is trying to escape with it. Ginius is inclined to leave this
matter in Norris' hands, until he has a better idea: Inah...

                                    ****

   Being a newtype, Kamille Vidan managed to run this far, but is already in
his limit, giving Norris a chance to capture someone that could give a lot of
information about Jaburo's situation.

   Kamille can hold on very well until the Gundoll comes (Turn 2), following
his distress signal. Kyousuke notices Titans mobile suits among the enemies -
after Paptimus Scirocco's demise, rumors were their technology had leaked to
Neo Zeon... Now outpowered, Norris immediately calls for reinforcements.

   Of the initial enemies, only Norris requires caution, but he doesn't have
much HP and can be beaten quickly by a good unit. However, his reinforcements
arrive on Turn 4: even more advanced Titans mobile suit models by the bottom
of the map.

   Kamille feels a presence that resembles Four's, but it's actually Rozamia
- after being freed by Kamille on the last war, she's now being controlled by
the Zeons. At least she still thinks Kamille's her brother: have him talk to
her to bring the enhanced human back to your side.

   On Turn 6, Inah brings Ginius' prototype Apsalus to reinforce Norris. The
appearance of that huge mobile armor (plus the repeated enemy reinforcements)
worries your team, but help comes right next: Amuro Ray, former ace pilot of
the Argama Team, and pilot of the First Gundam. By the start of the following
turn, Tobikage also appears - this time, it doesn't wait to combine.

   The Apsalus has only beam cannons, so a coated unit can resist its shots.
Avoid lining up your units before it to prevent Inah from firing a MAP weapon
and you'll be fine - it has 'only' 10000 HP and leaves when you take half of
it away.




Scene 3: "World"
================

 Choice:  Japan - Nanbara Connection  ->  Scenario 12
 Choice:  America - New York          ->  Scenario 13
 Choice:  SE Asia - Secret Base       ->  Scenario 14
 Choice:  Central Asia - Desert       ->  Scenario 15
 Last:    South America - Jaburo      ->  Scenario 16


   At the hospital, Kamille had a strange feeling, as if someone was telling
him this is no time to sleep. Then he somehow stole an old Titans mobile suit
to come here... The same unexplainable sensation had Amuro board a Re-GZ and
fly away - until he saw the huge mobile armor coming here.

                                    ****

   When the skeleton-like enemies appeared at Shinjuku, Akira felt a strange
sensation, as if Raideen was trying to tell something. However, the robot now
stays completely silent - maybe it only cares about the Ghost Empire.

   As mentioned before, Raideen was built some ten thousand years ago by the
Mu Empire to face the Ghost Empire army of demons... Why would an army so old
wake up right now? Considering the presumably even older Dinosaur Empire too
started making its moves at about the same time, this only makes it seem like
something bigger is behind it...

                                    ****

   While running away from Jaburo, Kamille intercepted an enemy transmission
that talked about the 'Apsalus Project' - that's certainly "that Zaku-headed"
large mobile armor. From the same transmission, Kamille could learn the name
of the Zeon high officer leading the project: Ginius Sakhalin.

   Shiro has Kamille report this information to Hadzuki, as it may allow you
to pinpoint the location of the Zeon headquarters, but is really more worried
about Ginius having the same last name as Inah...

                                    ****

   After entrusting his little sister the completion of his Apsalus Project,
Inah's defeat left Ginius no practical results to show to Lady Haman, and his
disappointment is made very clear - to make up for it, he says Inah must use
'his baby Apsalus' to destroy the Gundoll Team.

   Norris wasn't happy before to see Ginius using enhanced humans in battle,
and now feels bad to see Inah getting so pressed to enter a fight against the
Gundoll, but expressing his objections will have to wait, as he learns Delaz
Fleet's lieutenant Anavel Gato is near - why would the 'Nightmare of Solomon'
come to the Earth surface?

                                    ****

   Pressured by the Army's high command, Banjou Haran exploded his own super
robot 'Daitarn 3' after the last battle against the meganoids at Mars, but he
himself never stopped operating.

   Investigating a site where many people were reported to disappear, Banjou
Haran's assistants Reika, Beauty and Toppo bump into some strange building...
and then disappear themselves.

                                    ****

   At space, the Londo Bell is still fighting the Vega Army and Guyzock. The
unrestricted defense position Bright's team took almost had the Elshank blown
up before entering the Earth, but it's not like the present situation allows
Bright to assume any outer space visitor isn't an enemy...

   Unfortunately, even the Londo Bell's stubborn defense was useless against
the Bangar and Zaboom vessels: both armies have warp capabilities that render
them uninterceptable for the less advanced human ships. The Elshank too only
made it because of its micro-worm warp navigation technology.

   Speaking of the Elshank, Space Science Lab's chief Professor Umon managed
to synthesize the 'killhacium' fuel that powers Romina's ship. This means she
can use her ship again, but Hadzuki can't take her there until the Gundoll's
current mission is completed.

   Based on the message Kamille intercepted, Hadzuki can calculate the Zeon
secret base should be somewhere around the southeastern Asia's mountains. But
he has no intentions of tackling it before amassing some more firepower - he
specifically expects to recruit the Nanbara Connection's super robot.

   New transmissions report new mechs appearing above New York City, and the
description suggest aura battlers!... The army also received an SOS signal at
a military frequence from somewhere in the central Asia desert, but it faded
away very quickly.

                                    ****

   The Londo Bell too ran into the mysterious enemies, meaning this enemy is
not an Earth surface-confined force. Kyousuke is worried about Execellen and,
during a call to her, discovers she too heard them say something nobody else
could hear. Now he suspects the skeleton machines' appearances may be somehow
connected to them - because of 'that incident'.



Scenario 12 (Japan - Nanbara Connection)
                   - "Ground-Shaking Super Electromagnetic Robo"
----------------------------------------------------------------
40x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 15 (Combattler V, Gundoll + 13)
Initial Enemy Formation: Branbull [Garuda] Lv21
                         Magma Beast Demon Lv16 x04
                         Magma Beast Garms Lv16 x04
                         Magma Beast Demon Lv15 x02
                         Magma Beast Garms Lv15 x06
Enemy Reinforcements: Einstknochen Lv19 x04
                      Einstknochen Lv18 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, Chou Goukin Z
              If Last: Apogee Motor (after scenario end)
                       Psycho Frame (after scene end)
Events: Turn 2, Player Phase - Combattler V appears
        Ten or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        Branbull's HP below 30% - Garuda leaves


   Even under attack, Professor Yotsuya refuses to let his 'Combattler Team'
deploy before their mechs are prepared. Until then, the Nanbara Connection is
to be defended by the Gundoll Team. Facing a still unknown opponent, Hadzuki
learns from Yotsuya these are aliens from Planet Campbell, whose invasion the
late Professor Nanbara predicted.

   As you start far away from most enemies, always keep moving your units to
save turns. If you wish, send a few slow units towards the Nanbara Connection
to handle the enemies that will appear about there.

   By Turn 2 Yotsuya's 'Battle Machines' are still almost weaponless, but by
now Hyouma, Juuzou, Daisaku, Chizuru and Kosuke can't wait anymore - the five
mechs launch and, to avoid their ships' lack of weapons, combine immediately
into 'Combattler V', a super robot even more complicated than the ones you're
used to.

   Once there are less than ten Campbells left, the mysterious enemy strikes
again (by the woods both sides of the Nanbara Connection), and again Kyousuke
hears them say something: 'time'. Any nearby units can handle them, provided
you keep their HP high.

   The Branbull is relatively weak and, like most bosses so far, Garuda runs
away once his life drops below 30% - any remaining Campbell robots leave then
too. The Combattler Team wants to pursue Garuda, but Yotsuya prefers them to
stay and destroy the mysterious enemies.

   After the battle, Yotsuya offers Combattler V to the Gundoll, but Hadzuki
and the Combattler Team can't accept, since the Campbells are bound to return
and attack the Connection again. Yotsuya then argues defending this building
will be meaningless if the whole Earth is destroyed; besides, professors Yumi
and Saotome too left their own institutes uncovered when sending their super
robots away, but put Earth's needs above their own.



Scenario 13 (America - New York) - "From the Origin of Souls"
-------------------------------------------------------------
40x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Dunbine, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Vierres [Todd] Lv21
                         Einstglied Lv19 x04
                         Einstglied Lv18 x04
                         Vierres Lv16 x02
                         Leprechaun Lv16 x02
                         Drumlo Lv16 x05
                         Vierres Lv15 x01
                         Leprechaun Lv15 x02
                         Drumlo Lv15 x03
Clear Bonus - Always: Magnet Coating, Booster
              If Last: Haro (after scenario end)
                       Anti-Beam Coating (after scene end)
Events: none


   While looking for Shou, Todd was somehow brought back to the surface - to
New York City, only to see a bunch of strange-looking creatures appear before
his eyes. When the Gundoll arrives, its crew can't help noticing the strange
units seem to be reinforcing the aura battlers. Disregarding the weirdness of
the situation, Todd only cares about challenging Shou...

   This scenario brings no new aura battlers, so you know how to handle them
- avoid beam attacks, use long-range weapons and super robots to easily crush
them. The Einstglieds are fairly tough, but can't counter short-range flying
attacks or any range-2 attack.

   Have Shou talk to Todd: he'll argue something's wrong with Bistonwell and
this is no time to fight, but Todd claims he doesn't really need to return to
Bistonwell - after all, the surface is his homeland. Without time to discuss
more, Shou's forced to give up - if he only had more time to talk...

   Once you beat Todd, Shou regrets it had to end like this... If Shou spoke
to him, however, Chum points the Vierres wasn't directly hit and Todd managed
to survive. He's taken into the Gundoll, where Shou hopes to convince him in
due time (by the way, if you talked to Todd, any other enemies leave when you
defeat him).

   During the battle, newtypes Amuro and Kamille had a strange feeling about
the mysterious enemies - as if they weren't living beings nor robots, and yet
had a will of their own (but, unlike Kyousuke, they couldn't hear them speak
anything). After the skeleton-like units, these enemies resembled plants, and
the crew imagines there may be a connection between their appearance and the
reason so many invaders are coming in right now...



Scenario 14 (Southeast Asia - Secret Base) - "Assault"
------------------------------------------------------
27x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 16 (Ez-8, Gundoll + 14)
Initial Enemy Formation: none
Enemy Reinforcements: Gouf Custom [Norris] Lv23
                      GP-02A Physalis [Gato] Lv23 (optional)
                      Apsalus [Inah] Lv21
                      Gerbera-Tetra Lv18 x02 (optional)
                      Dreissen Lv16 x02
                      Kampfer Lv16 x03
                      Zssa Lv16 x02
                      Hambrabi (MS) Lv16 x02
                      Hambrabi (MA) Lv16 x03
                      Gaplant (MS) Lv16 x03
                      Kampfer Lv15 x03
                      Zssa Lv15 x02
                      Hambrabi (MS) Lv15 x01
                      Hambrabi (MA) Lv15 x02
                      Gaplant (MS) Lv15 x01
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, BioSensor
              If Last: Apogee Motor (after scenario end)
                       Large Generator (after scene end)
Events: Turn 2, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        GP-02 Physalis's HP below 40% - Gato leaves
        Gouf Custom's HP below 30% - Norris leaves


   Before the Zeon Secret Base, Shiro launches on his own, eager to check if
Inah's there. As the rest of the team deploys, things are calm, but caution's
advisable as the base's supposed to be just north of your starting position.
There are no enemies at first, but they show up on Turn 2 (on the narrow path
above you, and the open field northeast).

   If you're playing this scenario as first or second, Gato will be there as
well, in the GP-02A: a top secret, nuclear warhead-equipped Gundam prototype.
Inah reminds him the prototype must be shipped to space soon, but Gato still
has five minutes before his scheduled meeting, and wants to take this time to
'play' with you. [NOTE: if Gato showed up, so do two Gerbera-Tetras.]

   This stage isn't hard, especially for units that have anti-beam measures,
but the GP-02A is a pain because of the Atomic Bazooka - Gato's kiryoku rises
by two points whenever one of his fellow Zeons is killed and once it reaches
110 he'll nuke you as soon as he has two targets in range. If you really want
to beat him, you have to have super robots throw their best attacks quickly,
meaning you'll have to use seishins to unleash these moves. Furthermore, Gato
leaves when his HP drops below 40% (8000 points).

   Gato leaves on Turn 5 to go to space, leaving you only Norris and Inah to
defeat. Actually, Norris too runs away when his HP is below 30%, meaning only
Inah has to be truly beaten - the Apsalus is a little upgraded, but it is as
easy as it was the first time.

   Once the Apsalus is taken down, Ginius regrets not having had the time to
perfect his project, but trusts someone he knows at space may be able to help
him continue his work. Shiro, on the other hand, only wished he could've met
Inah once again, but for now will have to face the consequences for his weird
behavior before and during this operation.

   [NOTE: if you have Shiro himself finish the Apsalus, finding out Inah was
inside that mobile armor has him leave in hope to rescue her from the now out
of control mech. Lacking resources (and a little unwilling) to go after him,
Hadzuki abandons him at his own luck. He'll be back later.]



Scenario 15 (Central Asia - Desert) - "I Am Me, You Are Milenne"
----------------------------------------------------------------
24x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Daitarn 3, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Mettangar Lv16 x04
                         Zssa Lv16 x01
                         Aiai Lv16 x03
                         Leprechaun Lv16 x02
                         Mettangar Lv15 x05
                         Zssa Lv15 x02
                         Leprechaun Lv15 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Mega-Borg Milenne [Milenne] Lv21
                          Synthetic Beast Anihelm [Reika] Lv19
                          Synthetic Beast Anihelm [Beauty] Lv19
                          Synthetic Beast Anihelm [Toppo] Lv19
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Qubeley Mk-II [Ple] Lv21
Clear Bonus - Always: Booster, Magnet Coating
              If Last: High Efficiency Radar (after scenario end)
                       Anti-Beam Coating (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
                              Daitarn 3 appears
        Anihelms persuaded, defeated - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
        Mega-Borg Milenne's HP below 50% - Milenne leaves


   Following an SOS call on a military frequency, the Gundoll finds a single
building in the middle of the desert. As soon as your robots launch, a number
of enemies come: mechs of three different origins, from Zeon mobile suits to
Drake Army aura battlers. Even stranger, the third army are... Meganoids?

   None of the meganoid units is particularly strong (in fact, the Aiais are
very weak), and you already know how to fight the others, so make sure you're
sending the appropriate type of robot against the Mettangars and Leprechauns
on the right, while having the bulk of your forces go north.

   Realizing her enemy's very strong, on Turn 3 commander Milenne decides to
join the battle herself. Now you know you're dealing with meganoids: the huge
woman rising from the building is a 'Mega-Borg' - a meganoid turned giant by
using micro-machines. Milenne also brings in three minions to boost her army:
Banjou Haran's assistants Reika, Beauty and Toppo.

   Just then, Banjou himself appears, worried after having lost contact with
his friends. He can speak to his assistants, but they won't be able to resist
the meganoids' mind control, leading to the conclusion he must first destroy
the machines they're in. Defeat each Anihelm only _after_ Banjou talks to its
respective pilot.

   If Milenne's still alive by the time you talked to and defeated all three
Anihelms, she'll be forced to use her last resort: a Zeon newtype mobile suit
piloted by newtype child Elpeo Ple. Because the brain control over Ple isn't
perfected yet, you don't even need to speak to her - just defeat the Qubeley.
Milenne escapes when her HP drops below 11000 (50%), promising Banjou hasn't
seen the last of the meganoids.

   After the battle, Reika, Beauty and Toppo recover their will, while Ple's
taken into the Gundoll's infirmary. Now that you know the Daitarn blown up at
Mars was a fake, Banjou and friends can join your team.

   If you played this stage as third or fourth and had Shiro battle here, he
meets neutral guerilla Kiki Logita - after jumping in a Zeon truck to swipe a
mobile suit, she was taken by it into the meganoid building, where she found
a pilotless Kampfer. Kiki comes along until you find a safe place to drop her
and you get to keep the mobile suit.



Scenario 16 (South America - Jaburo) - "Disaster"
-------------------------------------------------
40x30, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 16 (Gundoll + 15)
Initial Enemy Formation: Einstglied Lv19 x03
                         Einstknochen Lv19 x05
                         Einstglied Lv18 x06
                         Einstknochen Lv18 x03
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Einstglied Lv19 x01
                          Einstknochen Lv19 x02
                          Einstglied Lv18 x03
                          Einstknochen Lv18 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Branbull [Garuda] Lv18
                          Magma Beast Demon Lv18 x03
                          Magma Beast Garms Lv18 x06
NPC Unit: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv57
Clear Bonus - Always: Apogee Motor, Seishin Energy Device, $20000
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Twelve or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
                                 Tobikage appears
        Branbull's HP below 30% - Garuda leaves


   If you had Shiro go after Inah on Scenario 14, they'll find themselves at
a snowy mountain northwest of the base. With both mechs broken, Inah can only
use the Apsalus to send out a distress signal on a common code both Zeon and
Union people can understand and follow. Until the search parties arrive, they
at least get to spend some time together.

                                    ****

   While Beauty, Reika and Chizuru poke, grab and pull Chum, the rest of the
Combattler Team and Banjou discuss the latest events, especially the Meganoid
Army - after being defeated by Banjou, their resurrection can't be explained
by anything other than "something funny must've happened at Mars".

   If you had Shou speak to Todd on Scenario 13, learning the surface too is
messed up has Todd change his attitude - wondering if the plant creatures had
anything to do with him being pulled out of Bistonwell, he is soon convinced
to join the Gundoll and defend his homeland Boston.

   If you had Ple appear on Scenario 15, you learn she's still unconscious -
the brain wave control took a heavy toll on her. As her physical condition is
still the same, Kamille hopes some more rest will help...

                                    ****

   Notice Tobikage hasn't appeared at any of your fights lately. Shaf points
his absence started at about the same time Space Science Lab's professor Umon
began working on the Elshank's adjustments. Given Tobikage first appeared at
the same time that ship landed on Mars, maybe there's some connection between
them... If so, why hasn't it reappeared now that Umon finished repairing the
'paper crane'?

   Before rushing into Jaburo and break its Zeon siege, a Medea was supposed
to catch up with you and deliver supplies, but Hadzuki lost contact with it -
ever stranger, while it was flying above the same unpopulated Pacific island
you met Amuro and Kamille at.

   Waiting another supply ship or looking for the lost Medea would take time
and it took a lot of pain before the Zeons calmed down to the current, pretty
quiet state. So, Hadzuki decides to head to Jaburo immediately and not waste
an opportunity to settle this matter.

                                    ****

   It's very strange to see the mysterious enemies take over Jaburo, as none
of their actions so far ever suggested this (or any other) objective. Hadzuki
tried to contact them whenever they attack, but they never responded - maybe
these machines don't have any communication systems or aren't piloted at all.
Interested in learning more, the Gundoll Team plans to collect some of their
remains after the battle.

   The accidented terrain and the scattered enemies make this a long, boring
scenario, forcing you to send you units in several directions. Make sure your
weaker units are never alone, as the enemies' various attack ranges let them
easily concentrate their efforts on a single target.

   On Turn 3 more enemies appear - all over the place, as if they had popped
up out of nowhere. Be particularly careful with the Einstknochens, as you can
handle the Einstglieds more easily (remember range-2 or close aerial attacks
won't be countered by the Glieds).

   Once there are twelve or less enemies left, the Campbells too strike from
the top right corner of the map. Compared to the mysterious enemies, they are
very weak and won't pose a threat. Even better, Tobikage too appears by then
to save the day.

   After the battle, you can enter Jaburo, but don't know what you'll find -
none of the Gundoll's sensors could see what's going on inside. While most of
the team goes back to the ship, Amuro assembles a party to collect pieces of
the destroyed mysterious enemies, as planned earlier. If you cleared Scenario
13 as first or second go to Scene 4-A, otherwise go to 4-B.



Scene 4-A: "Invasion of the Underground Empires"
================================================

 Choice:  Japan - Nanbara Connection  ->  Scenario 17-A
 Choice:  Atl. Coast - Volcanic Isl.  ->  Scenario 18-A
 Choice:  Beast Battle Squad Base     ->  Scenario 19-A
 Fixed:   Pacific Ocean - Desert Isl. ->  Scenario 20-A
 Last:    Space Science Laboratory    ->  Scenario 21


   For his collection party, Amuro called almost all mobile suits and Getter
Robo. Out of curiosity, Jou, Reny and Shou too come along. Until they return,
the rest of your crew is left bored inside the ship.

   As the Alteisen doesn't seem well, Kyousuke returns to the Gundoll before
the others to have his robot repaired. Not long after, a bright light appears
on the outside of the ship and blinds everyone for a few seconds. After it's
over, all units outside the ship are nowhere to be found!

   Fearing it was some sort of weapon that wiped out half of your group, the
crew prepares for battle, until Akira points out the light wasn't any beam or
explosion, but instead resembled the mystic ancient energy Raideen's powered
by. Maybe it has to do with the Bistonwell land Shou lived at?

   If you have Todd on your team, he confirms it was indeed the same sort of
light that pulled him out of Bistonwell. It probably meant to bring Shou back
to there and dragged everybody else with him - when Todd came, the light did
bring in a bunch of nearby aura battlers along to New York, remember?

   As there's a war going on at Bistonwell too, Mike worries his friends may
be in trouble, but Hadzuki trusts Amuro, Shiro and Getter Team can handle any
conflict easily - hell, they may even put an end to that war. Unfortunately,
he can't say the same about himself: without the long-range attacks only your
mobile suits had, the Gundoll Team simply can't invade Jaburo.

   It would be best to sit and wait for your friends to return, but it seems
you won't have that choice either: enemy raids are reported at Japan, against
both the Nanbara Connection and the Beast Battle Squad Base.

   To top it all, Ghost Empire's Prince Sharkin is challenging Raideen for a
fight, claiming to have Akira's father as hostage. Akira's father disappeared
long ago, while investigating the ruins of the ancient Mu Empire. Until now,
Akira always presumed he had died in an accident, but now...
</pre><pre id="faqspan-3">
   If Amuro and company return while the Gundoll is at Japan, Hadzuki leaves
them orders to stand by until further instructions. For now, the Gundoll Team
can only do its best with what it has...



Scenario 17-A (Japan - Nanbara Connection) - "Devastate, Winds of War"
----------------------------------------------------------------------
40x32, Surface
Goal: Protect the Nanbara Connection
Player Units: 13 (Combattler V, Gundoll + 11)
Initial Enemy Formation: Big Garuda [Garuda] Lv23
                         Magma Beast Demon [Mia] Lv15
                         Magma Beast Garms Lv16 x04
                         Magma Beast Demon Lv16 x09
                         Magma Beast Garms Lv15 x02
                         Magma Beast Maspron Lv15 x03
Enemy Reinforcements: Gante [Sharkin] Lv23
                      Giant Beast Madangar Lv16 x01
                      Gildeen Lv16 x01
                      Drome Lv16 x02
                      Giant Beast Madangar Lv15 x01
                      Gildeen Lv15 x01
                      Drome Lv15 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: High Efficiency Radar, BioSensor
              If Last: Repair Kit S (after scenario end)
                       Large Generator (after scene end)
Events: Turn 5, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive (optional)
        Big Garuda's HP below 50% - Garuda leaves
        Gante's HP below 50% - Sharkin leaves


   Garuda can't understand why to attack the Connection again, especially at
a time like this, but his mother Oreana's orders were very clear. He presumes
that installation hides a valuable secret - professor Yotsuya would agree.

   As the Gundoll comes to protect the building, it becomes clear Garuda has
no idea of your current powerlessness condition, despite having fought by the
mysterious enemies' side at Jaburo. So, the unidentified army never told the
Campbells about it, or told it to some commander that never bothered to relay
this information to his subordinates.

   Immediately have your troops secure the Nanbara Connection - if the enemy
touches it it's game over. You may have units tackle the enemies just east of
your starting position, but most of them will probably move south anyway.

   If you haven't played Scenario 18-A yet, on Turn 5 the Ghost Empire comes
(at the same place you started) - Sharkin thinks Akira was late and wanted to
see where he was. Until their duel at the Atlantic Volcanic Island, Sharkin
won't tell you anything about his own plans, but assures Akira's dad is still
alive and waiting. For now, he orders his minions to attack the Gundoll, but
not the Campbells, who share his goal - but what goal is this?... the Nanbara
Connection's super electromagnetic technology?

   The Big Garuda has 25600 HP and leaves when left with less than 50%. When
that happens, Hyouma too departs to chase him, ignoring Hadzuki and Yotsuya's
orders to stay. By the way, Sharkin too runs away when his HP drops to below
50% (he has 22400 HP).

   After the battle, despite his best efforts, Yotsuya can't find Combattler
V's signal, meaning they're on their own, at least for a while. Now even more
weakened, things are looking really bad for the Gundoll Team...



Scenario 18-A (Atlantic Coast - Volcanic Island) - "The Prince's Last Bet"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
24x24, Surface
Goal: Defeat Sharkin
Player Units: 12 (Raideen, Blueger, Gundoll + 9)
Initial Enemy Formation: Prince Sharkin [Sharkin] Lv23
                         Gante Lv16 x02
                         Giant Beast Madangar Lv16 x02
                         Gildeen Lv16 x02
                         Drome Lv16 x04
                         Giant Beast Madangar Lv15 x02
                         Gildeen Lv15 x04
                         Drome Lv15 x06
Enemy Reinforcements: Giant Beast Madangar Lv16 x02
                      Combine Giant Beast Gardon Lv16 x01
                      Giant Beast Madangar Lv15 x02
                      Combine Giant Beast Gardon Lv15 x01
NPC Units: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv72
Clear Bonus - Always: Anti-Beam Coating, Chobham Armor
              If Last: Repair Kit S (after scenario end)
                       Seishin Energy Device (after scene end)
Events: Ten or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
                              Tobikage appears


   Prince Sharkin finally reveals why he's so obsessed with defeating Akira:
he isn't. He isn't interested in Akira (or any other human, for that matter),
but in Raideen, legacy of the Mu Empire and keeper of ancient secrets.

   This island is entirely made of rock, meaning it hinders the movements of
your ground units a lot. Therefore, your ground-bound robots may as well stay
at the bottom right corner of the island and handle the enemy reinforcements
that come once there are ten or less enemies left. However, it may be best to
have Bakuryuu advance into the land, because...

   Once the enemy reinforcements appear, so does Tobikage, for a much needed
help. By now, the strong Ghost Empire units should be wearing your units out,
and seeing the Madangars heal 30% of their HP every turn doesn't help. Just
remember the goal of this scenario is to defeat Sharkin, so if things get too
tough or you feel like saving turns just focus on him.

   But that's easier said than done: Sharkin has 29000 HP and 2300 armor, so
anything less than the strongest attacks will only dent him. Once you finally
win, even the prince will admit your superiority - but warns his death isn't
the end: the great Barao will lead the Ghost Empire to victory.

   With Akira's father Ichirou safe, the Gundoll Team takes off for its next
destination. Kyousuke can't help thinking there's some connection between the
Ghost Empire and the mysterious enemies, while Romina points 'Barao' doesn't
seem to be a person's name...



Scenario 19-A (Beast Battle Squad Base) - "Dragon's Lair"
---------------------------------------------------------


    This scenario changes according to the moment you play it. If you choose
to play it as first (that is, before any other scenario on this scene), go to
Scenario 19-A1. If you already cleared scenarios 17 and/or 18, go to 19-A2.



Scenario 19-A1 (Beast Battle Squad Base) - "Dragon's Lair"
----------------------------------------------------------
24x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 11 (Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: Darkness Great General [Darkness Great General] Lv23
                         Minerva X [AI+] Lv19
                         Battle Beast Dante Lv16 x01
                         Machine Beast Toros D7 Lv16 x02
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv16 x03
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv16 x02
                         Battle Beast Dante Lv15 x02
                         Machine Beast Toros D7 Lv15 x02
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv15 x03
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv15 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Mass-Production Great Lv19 x03
                          Mass-Production Great Lv18 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Machine Beast Apolon A1 Lv19 x03
                          Machine Beast Apolon A1 Lv18 x01
NPC Units: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv65
Clear Bonus - Always: Psycho Frame, Mega Booster
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive (optional)
                              Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive (optional)
        Turn 5, Enemy Phase - Tobikage appears



   In order to cut off your supply line, the Darkness Great General plans to
invade the Beast Battle Squad Base. Unfortunately for him, the Gundoll Team's
managed to arrive just in time to defend the place, but that won't have him
give up: his units are already surrounding the base.

   Among the Mikeene units is Minerva X, a prototype Mazinger designed to be
Mazinger Z's partner - the rumors were the staff at the museum it was sent to
couldn't find it, but nobody imagined it had fallen in enemy hands... If you
have Kouji, he can use the 'persuade' command and recover Minerva X.

   On Turn 3, the Darkness Great General decides to bring in reinforcements:
if you played Scenario 4-2, he calls four Great Mazingers!... yes, during his
invasion of the Science Fortress Lab, he managed to steal Great's blueprints
and use them to mass-produce copies of it. [NOTE: if you cleared Scenario 4-1
instead of 4-2, you just fight some machine beasts.]

   Tetsuya can call 'persuade' on (any) one Mass-Production Great: realizing
that's a perfect copy of his own robot, he knows how to tamper with and short
its circuits. Once that's done, defeat it to get rid of its AI - you'll have
a Mass-Production Great after the battle.

   All enemies here are very resistant and demand lots of effort, especially
the Darkness Great General - with 29000 HP and strong attacks for all ranges,
it takes quite a few heavy attacks to beat him. At least Tobikage appears on
Turn 5 to help you (and, of course, combine with Bakuryuu).

   The Beast Battle Squad Base is free, but somehow your future doesn't seem
so bright: the enemies displayed some evolution in their strategies - back in
the old days, they'd insist on direct attacks against you. Although the base
wasn't invaded, it can't be used after the enemy found out its vulnerability;
the crew will pick all supplies it can carry before leaving it.



Scenario 19-A2 (Beast Battle Squad Base) - "Dragon's Lair"
----------------------------------------------------------
24x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 11 (Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: Darkness Great General [Darkness Great General] Lv23
                         Minerva X [AI+] Lv19
                         Battle Beast Dante Lv16 x01
                         Machine Beast Toros D7 Lv16 x02
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv16 x03
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv16 x02
                         Battle Beast Dante Lv15 x02
                         Machine Beast Toros D7 Lv15 x02
                         Battle Beast Zugarl Lv15 x03
                         Machine Beast Genova M9 Lv15 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Mass-Production Great Lv19 x03
                          Mass-Production Great Lv18 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Machine Beast Apolon A1 Lv19 x03
                          Machine Beast Apolon A1 Lv18 x01
NPC Units: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv65
Clear Bonus - Always: Psycho Frame, Mega Booster
              If Last: Repair Kit S (after scenario end)
                       Chobham Armor (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive (optional)
                              Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive (optional)
        Turn 5, Enemy Phase - Tobikage appears


   Well, you are too late: the Darkness Great General already broke into the
Beast Battle Squad Base, cutting off your top supply line. At this point, you
can only kick the intruders out of the base and see what you can salvage out
of it...

   Among the Mikeene units is Minerva X, a prototype Mazinger designed to be
Mazinger Z's partner - the rumors were the staff at the museum it was sent to
couldn't find it, but nobody imagined it had fallen in enemy hands... If you
have Kouji, he can use the 'persuade' command and recover Minerva X.

   On Turn 3, the Darkness Great General decides to bring in reinforcements:
if you played Scenario 4-2, he calls four Great Mazingers!... yes, during his
invasion of the Science Fortress Lab, he managed to steal Great's blueprints
and use them to mass-produce copies of it. [NOTE: if you cleared Scenario 4-1
instead of 4-2, you just fight some machine beasts.]

   Tetsuya can call 'persuade' on (any) one Mass-Production Great: realizing
that's a perfect copy of his own robot, he knows how to tamper with and short
its circuits. Once that's done, defeat it to get rid of its AI - you'll have
one Mass-Production Great after the battle.

   All enemies here are very resistant and demand lots of effort, especially
the Darkness Great General - with 29000 HP and strong attacks for all ranges,
it takes quite a few heavy attacks to beat him. At least Tobikage appears on
Turn 5 to help you (and, of course, combine with Bakuryuu).

   The Beast Battle Squad Base is free, but completely thrashed, signaling a
grimm future. The enemies also displayed some evolution in their strategies -
in the old days, they'd insist on direct attacks against you. Since the base
is useless now, the Gundoll Team will simply salvage whatever supplies it can
before abandoning it.



Scenario 20-A (Pacific Ocean - Desert Island) - "Collector of Treacheries"
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 12 (Daitarn 3, Gundoll + 10)
Initial Enemy Formation: none
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Synthetic Beast Anihelm Lv17 x02
                          Mettangar Lv17 x01
                          Aiai Lv17 x05
                          Synthetic Beast Anihelm Lv16 x01
                          Mettangar Lv16 x02
                          Aiai Lv16 x04
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Zssa Lv17 x02
                          MechaBoost Tracid Lv17 x02
                          Zssa Lv16 x01
                          MechaBoost Tracid Lv16 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (3): Mega-Borg Bemmel [Bemmel] Lv24
                          Hambrabi (MS) Lv17 x02
                          Leprechaun Lv17 x01
                          Hambrabi (MS) Lv16 x01
                          Leprechaun Lv16 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (4): Zaku (Char Custom Type) Lv20 x01
                          Gundam Lv19 x01
NPC Units: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv79
Clear Bonus - Always: V-Up Unit, Haro, $20000
Events: Turn 2, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Twelve or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
        Twelve or less enemies (again) - Enemy Reinforcements (3) arrive
        Turn 6, Enemy Phase - Tobikage appears
        Turn 10, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (4) arrive
        Mega-Borg Bemmel's HP below 30% - Bemmel leaves


   Having disappeared not long after giving birth to Akira, Ichirou Hibiki's
wife is presumed dead but, during his captivity, Ichirou learned she may very
well still be alive: after all, she's not a common person, but a Mu.

   Milennia ago, shortly before its extinction, the Mu Empire apparently had
the technology to have Akira's mother hibernate until the present - where she
met and married Ichirou. So, Akira too is part Mu, which explains why he can
pilot Raideen.

   In order to (hopefully) make sense of all this, and also investigate why
Raideen reacted when it first confronted the mysterious enemies, Ichirou will
resume his research on the Mutron energy as soon as he returns to the Mutron
Laboratory. In the meantime, Akira has to keep on fighting, he urges.

                                    ****

   Though still worried about the missing pilots, the Gundoll crew has other
more urgent problems: they're running out of supplies. As you may remember, a
Medea vessel was scheduled to deliver supplies for your Jaburo invasion, but
vanished - curiously, above the same Pacific desert island you met with Amuro
and Kamille at.

   Since the Gundoll has to leave Akira's father at the Mutron Research Lab,
it can also take the opportunity to fly by that island and look for the Medea
and its cargo - maybe you'll even find mobile suits among the goods.

                                    ****

   Upon arrival, it's easy to notice the island's very different: a mountain
was split in two to make room to some sort of installation! Cautious, Hadzuki
deploys before approaching the place, but the enemy will only reveal himself
on Turn 2: Meganoid Bemmel, interested in catching as many cutting-edge mechs
as possible for his personal collection.

   Of course, Bemmel feels really lucky for bumping on the Gundoll Team (no,
this isn't a planned ambush) and its beautiful robots; Banjou makes his usual
speech on how he'll call the power of the sun to stop the evil, but Bemmel's
too busy drooling on Daitarn 3 to pay attention...

   With twelve or less enemies left (shouldn't take long), Bemmel decides to
reinforce his troops with mechs from his collection: mobile suits and Guyzock
artillery units launched at the south and east of the base.

   After that, reduce the enemy numbers to twelve again for Bemmel to deploy
more of his collectibles: Titans mobile suits and Drake aura battlers (to the
left of your starting position and at the small eastern island). Challenged
by Banjou, Bemmel himself enters the battle as a Mega-Borg; with 20400 HP and
not so resistant, he can be easily beaten and leaves once his HP drops below
6120 - but make sure he survives until Turn 10.

   Tobikage enters at Turn 6, but it's not like you really need his strenght
to defeat these enemies - then again, it's never bad to have him. If Bemmel's
still alive by Turn 10, he'll parade the really rare stuff: the First Gundam
and Char's Zaku, two of the most powerful mobile suits from the One Year War.
Very interested, Bernie imagines if he only damages their generators...

   Don't be fooled by those old mobile suits, they're upgraded and can cause
heavy damage on any of your robots. Make sure Bernie finishes at least one of
them, as it'll allow him to salvage and dismantle them for parts.

   After the battle, Bemmel's presence confirms to Banjou the Meganoids have
indeed returned, but there's nothing he can do for now. The Gundoll Team will
explore Bemmel's base and recover whatever supplies it can before leaving.

                                    ****

   Before the intermission, the Gundoll's contacted by Shiro, who reports he
and the other missing team members have at last returned from Bistonwell, and
even had a new ally - Marvel Frozen - accidentally brought into the surface.
Go to Scenario 21 (because the next scenario is common to both Scenes 4-A and
4-B, it's written at the end of Scene 4-B).



Scene 4-B: "The Origin of Souls"
================================

 Choice:  Storm Sphere                ->  Scenario 17-B
 Choice:  Uropolos Castle             ->  Scenario 18-B
 Choice:  Caracala Mountains Area     ->  Scenario 19-B
 Fixed:   Drake Castle                ->  Scenario 20-B
 Last:    Space Science Laboratory    ->  Scenario 21


   For his collection party, Amuro called almost all mobile suits and Getter
Robo. Out of curiosity, Jou, Reny and Shou too come along. Until they return,
the rest of your crew is left bored inside the ship.

   After a while, all the remains of the mysterious enemies suddenly vanish;
even the previouly collected pieces melted into some sort of ash, leaving the
team nothing usable. Having nothing else to do, and aware Hadzuki is already
preparing to enter Jaburo, the party is about to return... when it's engulfed
by a bright flash.

   Once the light fades out, the collection party finds itself in an unknown
land, the Gundoll nowhere to be found. Shou and Chum quickly realize they are
back to Bistonwell, the realm 'between sea and land' its inhabitants believe
to be 'the origin of souls', the place human souls come to rest.

   Shou immediately contacts his local friends Marvel, Nie and Keen, only to
learn their campaign against the 'Drake Army' has taken a turn for the worse,
forcing them to divide their already small forces: Nie and Keen must protect
the Kingdom of Na's Uropolos Castle - its Queen Ceila Lapana was captured and
presumably imprisoned at the 'Storm Sphere' - while Marvel heads towards the
Caracala mountains to intercept Drake himself.

   Agreeing to help Shou, your party must go to each of these places to meet
his friends, before invading the Drake Castle to rescue faerie Silky Mau (the
only one with the slightest chance of sending you back home).



Scenario 17-B (Storm Sphere) - "Queen of the Red Storm"
-------------------------------------------------------
30x22, Surface
Goal: Defeat all enemies within 10 turns
Player Units: 11 (all available units)
Initial Enemy Formation: none
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Wryneck Lv16 x02
                          Drumlo Lv16 x04
                          Vierres Lv16 x01
                          Wryneck Lv15 x01
                          Drumlo Lv15 x02
                          Vierres Lv15 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Mecha Ikkaku Ki Lv16 x02
                          Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv16 x01
                          Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv16 x01
                          Mecha Ikkaku Ki Lv15 x01
                          Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv15 x02
                          Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv15 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Repair Kit S
              If Last: Magnet Coating (after scenario end)
                       BioSensor (after scene end)
Events: Turn 2, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive


   As the Storm Sphere wasteland is actually in motion, you cannot afford to
spend more than ten minutes (ten turns) looking for Queen Ceila, or else this
place will drag you so far you won't reach the Drake Castle in time.

   There are no enemies at first, but they appear (all over the left side of
the field) on Turn 2 - confirming Ceila must be here. The enemy aura battlers
aren't tough, but you don't have resupply units here, so keep an eye on your
ammo and energy (notice the giant mushrooms heal a little HP).

   Enemy reinforcements come a turn later - Dinosaur, Hundred Devils empires
units on Bistonwell? At least these monsters' appearance has faerie Elle show
herself, as well as Queen Ceila.

   Even the new enemies are no match for your mobile suit pilots, especially
the newtypes. The fight should be over in no time, leaving you free to escort
the queen to her Uropolos Castle.



Scenario 18-B (Uropolos Castle) - "Silent Citadel"
--------------------------------------------------
30x22, Surface
Goal: Protect your base(s)
Player Units: 13 (Botune (x2) + all available units)
Initial Enemy Formation: Leprechaun [Allen] Lv23
                         Leprechaun [Jeril] Lv23
                         Drumlo Lv16 x05
                         Vierrres Lv16 x03
                         Drumlo Lv15 x04
                         Vierres Lv15 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Leprechaun [Barn] Lv23
                          Vierres Lv16 x04
                          Vierres Lv15 x04
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Repair Kit S
              If Last: Cartridge (after scenario end)
                       Magnet Coating (after scene end)
Events: Ten or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive


   To prevent the completion of the Kingdom of Na's battleship 'Gran-Garan',
the Drake Army stages an attack against its building site. Easily taking most
of the defenders out (only Nie and Keen are left), Allen and Jeril are about
to break into both the Uropolos Castle and the building site when the Gundoll
Team appears. If you already cleared Scenario 17-B, Ceila gives the Billbine
to Shou, who boards it immediately.

   Immediately have some units defend the construction site, but leave a few
near the castle as well - if either base is invaded by the enemies, you lose.
The Drakes aren't hard, but concentrate on moving towards the bases, meaning
you have to destroy as many of them as fast as possible.

   You can move your robots into the bases themselves to prevent the enemies
from entering, but this may be a little harder to do on the construction site
- you need to send at least two fast units that way to properly cover it.

   Once there are less than eleven enemies left their reinforcements arrive,
led by Barn Bunnings, investigating why didn't his allies take over the place
already. Like many others here, he is dying to kill Shou, making the rest of
the crew wonder how can one gather so many sworn enemies...

   The extra foes only make it more urgent for you to kill them quickly, and
things may get really hard by the Gran-Garan site, especially if Nie and Knee
didn't finish many enemies by then. By the way, the two won't join you after
the battle - they prefer to stay and work on the battleship.



Scenario 19-B (Caracala Mountains Area) - "The Black, Scary One"
----------------------------------------------------------------
24x34, Surface
Goal: Prevent the Will-Wips from reaching the south end
Player Units: 11 (Botune + all available units)
Initial Enemy Formation: Will-Wips [Drake] Lv23
                         Drumlo Lv16 x09
                         Drumlo Lv15 x04
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Leprechaun [Allen] Lv23
                          Drumlo Lv16 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Leprechaun [Jeril] Lv23
                          Vierres Lv16 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (3): Gildeen Lv16 x02
                          Mechasaurus Dai Lv16 x01
                          Gildeen Lv15 x01
                          Mechasaurus Dai Lv15 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, Mega Booster
              If Last: Magnet Coating (after scenario end)
                       Apogee Motor (after scene end)
Events: Turn 1, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Turn 2, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
        Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (3) arrive
        Will-Wips' HP below 20% - Drake leaves
                                  all enemy aura battlers leave


   Crossing the Caracala mountains towards his next conquest Tartala Castle,
Drake Luft trusts his massive aura battleship 'Will-Wips' won't have problems
- though it's still far from perfect, only a huge army would be able to face
it, and as of now only one Botune stands on its way... until Shou and friends
appear, that is.

   Drake knows better than underestimating the surfacers, but won't let your
attack delay his plans: reaching the bottom of the screen, he will be able to
break Tartala's last defense line and take over the castle.

   The Will-Wips constantly moves towards the bottom of the map, meaning you
too must keep on running to catch up. It's not fast, so you should be able to
block its course in no time, provided you don't stop to fight other enemies.
Throughout the first two turns, Allen and Jeril come in to help Drake (by the
left and the right of the Will-Wips current position, respectively).

   On Turn 3 another enemy wave comes, this time from the Ghost and Dinosaur
Empires - though neither side understands what are these machines doing here,
they'll only attack you. By now, however, you already have enough kiryoku to
inflict good damage on any opponent, including the Will-Wips (25000 HP; Drake
runs away when left with less than 5000, followed by his soldiers).

   Although your crew feels really hard to fight without a battleship, Amuro
won't tolerate any complaints - without half its troops, the Gundoll is bound
to be facing much harder battles on the surface.



Scenario 20-B (Drake Castle) - "Aura Road, Again"
-------------------------------------------------
24x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Gran-Garan + all available units)
Initial Enemy Formation: Wryneck [Barn] Lv26
                         Leprechaun [Allen] Lv26
                         Leprechaun [Jeril] Lv26
                         Leprechaun Lv17 x02
                         Drumlo Lv17 x03
                         Vierres Lv17 x06
                         Leprechaun Lv16 x02
                         Drumlo Lv16 x05
                         Vierres Lv16 x02
Enemy Reinforcements: Einstknochen Lv20 x04
                      Einstknochen Lv19 x04
NPC Units: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv65
Clear Bonus - Always: BioSensor, Chobham Armor, $20000
Events: Turn 3, Player Phase - Guran Galan appears (optional)
        Twelve or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
                                 Tobikage appears


   The Drake Castle houses the faerie called Silky Mau, capable of summoning
surfacers into Bistonwell. Hoping she might do the opposite and send you back
home, your party intends an attack against Drake's headquarters.

   The Will-Wips apparently felt your strikes more than it first seemed - it
was forced to return to the Drake Castle for repairs and seems unable to take
off. In consequence, confusion took over the entire castle, maybe leaving it
open to a wide-scale offensive. Since this is too good a chance to waste, you
can't wait for Queen Ceila to complete the Gran-Garan's adjustments, even if
the lack of a battleship may have you suffer to stand longer battles.

   Eager to assist, Nie and Keen will join you on the next battle, and Ceila
puts faeries Elle and Belle to help you. In addition, if you haven't received
it yet (that is, if you cleared Scenario 17-B after 18-B), Shou is given the
Billbine, a prototype aura battler based on the Dunbine's technology.

   As the next battle promises to be really hard, Reny imagines Tobikage may
show up and help you, but Kamille argues even that ninja probably can't break
through dimensions - then again, if the Dinosaur Empire pieces of junk could
do it, why can't that robot?

                                    ****

   By the time you show up, the Will-Wips is indeed grounded. Without even a
hope of launching it any day soon, Drake has to leave his castle's defense on
the hands of his soldiers. Good for you, but you're not at your prime either
- without any means of refueling, you must save as much energy and ammunition
as possible.

   If you received the Billbine just before this scenario started, on Turn 3
Ceila appears on the Gran-Garan - unable to give Shou the Billbine any sooner
and eager to help, looks like she hurried up the work on her battleship. The
Gran-Garan will take time to reach the action, but at least Ceila'll probably
have a lot of support seishins you can make good use of.

   When there are twelve or less enemies left, the mysterious enemy attacks.
Realizing these aren't your friends, Drake puts all his remaining units in an
all-out offensive - with most of his battlers already gone, it's not like he
has much more to lose anyway. Confused to see the unknown enemies coming here
apparently by themselves, your party at least receives Tobikage's assistance
(following the enemies here?... if you think about it, he is as mysterious as
the unknown army).

   With or without a battleship, this entire scenario is pretty easy, as was
this scene as a whole. Once you defeat all enemies, Shou is about to go after
Drake himself, but a bright light engulfs them again before that...

   The party is returned to the surface, more specifically Tokyo, from where
they immediately call the Gundoll. In addition to the surfacers, Marvel, Elle
and Belle were brought with you and, if Todd joined you on Scene 3, you also
(somehow) receive a Wryneck. Go to Scenario 21.



Scenario 21 (Space Science Laboratory) - "Shine Amid the Storm"
---------------------------------------------------------------
40x32, Surface
Goal: Protect your base until takeoff
Player Units: 16 (Ez-8, Kuroshishi, Hourai-Ou, Bakuryuu, Gundoll + 11)
Initial Enemy Formation: Gouf Custom [Norris] Lv26
                         Dreissen Lv18 x04
                         Kampfer Lv18 x03
                         Hi-Gogg Lv18 x03
                         Dreissen Lv17 x03
                         Kampfer Lv17 x03
                         Hi-Gogg Lv17 x03
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Banks Lv18 x03
                          Sherman Lv18 x04
                          Banks Lv17 x03
                          Sherman Lv17 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Apsalus [Inah] Lv25
NPC Units: Elshank [Romina] Lv06
           Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv??
Clear Bonus - Always: Minovsky Craft, Chou Goukin New-Z, $20000
Events: Turn 2, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Turn 5, Player Phase - Tobikage appears
                               Elshank leaves
        Twelve or less enemies - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive


   Divided, the Gundoll Team didn't succeed at any front: Shou's side failed
to completely finish Drake Luft (but only because they were brought back home
before it), while Hadzuki's side grew even weaker after Combattler V left to
chase its nemesis Garuda and the Beast Battle Squad Base was messed up by the
Darkness Great General.

   Also, even though the Gundoll managed to defeat Sharkin, the Ghost Empire
is likely not to simply fade away - Sharkin himself said so before dying, and
he was the 'prince', so there's still a 'king' out there...

                                    ****

   As Haman Karn plans to drop a space colony on the Earth, the Zeon surface
troops must contribute to this operation's success. Since the perfect Apsalus
model is yet to be completely assembled, Ginius has Inah take a prototype for
an attack against the Space Science Laboratory...

   Later, Inah reveals to Norris the surviving Zeon troops were sent back to
space, but only after Ginius agreed to send Inah on a suicide mission: she is
expected to crash the prototype at the Lab. To spare the lives of her fellow
soldiers, her brother's Apsalus dream and the Sakhalins name, she accepts her
fate, showing a strenght Norris credits to love.

   Touched to hear Inah say she considers him a second father, and aware her
decision is final, Norris will spearhead an offensive to secure the route for
her last mission.

                                    ****

   Once Bright warns Hadzuki of the impending colony drop, everyone wants to
go to space and help, but can't: the Gundoll Team cannot abandon the troubled
surface and, even if it could, it'd never reach the conflict area in time to
make a difference - the Gundoll would have to have the ability to reach space
in an instant.

   Bright still doesn't know where the colony is meant to crash, but guesses
it's going to be Jaburo - Haman's not happy with the mysterious enemies' hold
over it. If so, the Gundoll can simply remain stationed at Japan to be safe,
praying the Londo Bell will suceed in stopping Neo Zeon.

   While the pilots cry their powerlessness, Shaf reports Professor Umon has
perfected the refinement process to synthesize the killhacium that powers the
Elshank... Then it hits Princess Romina: fueled, her warp-capable ship _can_
go to space in an instant!

   To raise the Elshank's power, Akira and Banjou will be in it: knowing the
mysterious enemy army has appeared at space too, Akira expects taking Raideen
there may help him figure things out, while Banjou wants to check how Mars -
especially given the Meganoids - is doing.

                                    ****

   If you had her brought into the Gundoll (Scenario 15), Elpeo Ple too will
be sent to the Ral Kairam - she didn't wake up yet but keeps mumbling Judau's
name, so they think being near him is better for her. If Bernie finished the
Gundam and/or Char's Zaku on Scenario 20-A, he'll ship some of their parts in
the Elshank.

   Like the first time you visited the Space Lab, you must prevent the Zeons
from reaching the laboratory until the Elshank takes off. All Zeons are south
of it, but Zabooms strike from the north on Turn 2, after having apparently
detected the Elshank's micro-worm warp energy signature.

   Keep in mind at least some of the enemies always advance towards the lab,
so you must be fast in defeating whoever approaches it - you'll suffer if the
enemies (mainly the Zabooms) pile up on your face. Then again, you only need
to hold on until the Elshank warps out on Turn 5, and Tobikage reinforces you
just before that.

   The Apsalus enters as soon as there are less than twelve enemies left, by
the top left corner of the map. It doesn't have the HP it showed earlier, but
its weapons are far stronger - even aura barriers won't stand. The upside is
Shiro can talk to Inah as soon as her HP is below 30% and urge her to believe
- like he now does - that even the war isn't unchangeable or unavoidable, as
long as they're together. Inah will join you immediately.

   Inah can talk to Norris to apologize for her betrayal; he praises her for
no longer following Ginius' commands blindly, but here's where they separate:
unlike Inah, he's a soldier and intends to die as such here. Now have Bernie
talk to him to argue dying like this is to think abandoning all one claims to
defend is what makes a good soldier - that's just wrong. Norris calls Bernie
a 'Cyclops Team leftover', but can't deny his point and joins you too.



Scene 5: "The Hundred Devils Empire Menace"
===========================================

 Choice:  Saotome Institute           ->  Scenario 22
 Choice:  Japan - Kyoto               ->  Scenario 23
 Choice:  Dormant Volcano Crater      ->  Scenario 24
 Choice:  Japan - Gulf City           ->  Scenario 25
 Last:    Above Science Fortress Isl. ->  Scenario 26


   While Garuda works to improve the robot he'll soon fight the Gundoll Team
with, Oreana reveals to Mia that Garuda will soon learn his recurrent defeats
costed him his Great General rank - his replacement will arrive soon. Worse,
Combattler V chased Garuda after his last battle and found out the Campbells'
base location - an unforgivable mistake.

   Fearing the very proud Garuda won't resist the humiliation of both losing
his status and giving away his own base's location to the enemy, Mia imagines
something has to be done - and Oreana will support her all the way...

                                    ****

   In the meantime, Garuda discovers an underground factory he never knew to
exist, where he finds a number of... 'Garudas' lined up, each discarded after
showing some memory, personality or emotional issue. He himself is the fifth
model, and is already considered a failure - the whole Garuda project will be
abandoned after his deactivation.

   As you may expect, discovering to be just another of Oreana's robots with
programmed memories and emotions, "even more ridiculous for believing to be a
true Campbell", leaves the proud Great General Garuda quite disturbed...

                                    ****

   After sending reinforcements to space, the Gundoll Team can't do anything
else on the colony drop matter, nor contact the Londo Bell to see how they're
doing, so Hadzuki can mind his own business: the Combattler Team located the
Campbell aliens' main headquarters at a newly-formed Pacific volcanic island.
They are ordered to stand by at a high altitude, but many in your crew doubt
they'll obey for long...

   Also, Professor Saotome informs 'Getter Robo G', an even stronger version
of Getter Robo, is complete and waiting for the Getter Team. The bad news is,
the Hundred Devils Empire is approaching the Saotome Institute.

   While Combattler V is already waiting by the Campbells' base and would be
useful in protecting the Saotome Institute, maybe the Campbells are so strong
you'll need Getter G to beat them - besides, nobody can predict how long can
the Institute resist without reinforcements, nor how much the Combattler Team
is willing to wait before charging on the Campbells.

   And there's more: ordered to assist the Gundoll, Banjou's butler Garrison
Tokida informs the Meganoids seem to be connected to Hazard Pasha - maybe Don
Zauser and Korosu even hid at Pasha's Mars Colony Base after losing the last
war. Speaking of which, Zaboom machines were seen heading towards Kyoto, just
to make deciding your next destination even more complicated.



Scenario 22 (Saotome Institute) - "Combine Now! Getter Robo"
------------------------------------------------------------


    If you choose to play this stage as first or second, you will be sent to
Scenario 22-1. Otherwise, you go to 22-2.



Scenario 22-1 (Saotome Institute) - "Combine Now! Getter Robo"
--------------------------------------------------------------
32x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Getter Dragon, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Mechasaurus Dai Lv23 x01
                         Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv23 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv23 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv23 x02
                         Mechasaurus Dai Lv22 x01
                         Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv22 x04
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv22 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv22 x02
Enemy Reinforcements: Combined Hundred Devils Robot [Burai] Lv28
                      Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv23 x02
                      Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv22 x04
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Chobham Armor
Events: Turn 3, Player Phase - Getter Dragon appears
        Turn 5, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        Combined Hundred Devils Robot's HP below 50% - Burai leaves


   During the final adjustments on Getter G, your crew witnesses the massive
Getter energy overflowing from the institute, making Amuro wonder why did the
enemies wait until now to target a place that holds such an obvious power...
And realize they were just waiting for Saotome to build Getter G for them.

   The attacking enemies aren't so hard (the Dais demand effort, but because
they have high HPs), and small robots should dodge their attacks very easily.
Getter G enters the field on Turn 3, but it'll take time to reach the battle
at the south, so you may as well take it to the north, because the next enemy
reinforcements pop up there.

   On Turn 5, the head of the Hundred Devils appears himself: Emperor Burai,
in the massive 'Combined Hundred Devils Robot', just to see the pathetic ones
that are giving his troops so much trouble. As huge as the Combined is, it's
not that tough - its 25600 HP are nothing good super robots can't defeat, and
Burai leaves once you take half his HP.

   When put to run, Burai admits he didn't expect you to deliver such a hard
blow even on the Combined Hundred Devils Robot, but assures this doesn't mean
you can win. Most of the crew regard this as soar loser talk, but Norris and
Kamille suspect Burai, in his rage, slipped out he has a more powerful entity
backing him up.



Scenario 22-2 (Saotome Institute) - "Combine Now! Getter Robo"
--------------------------------------------------------------
32x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 15 (Texas Mack, Getter 1, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Getter Dragon Lv24 x01
                         Mechasaurus Dai Lv23 x01
                         Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv23 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv23 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv23 x02
                         Mechasaurus Dai Lv22 x01
                         Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv22 x04
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv22 x02
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.1 Lv22 x02
Enemy Reinforcements: Combined Hundred Devils Robot [Burai] Lv32
                      Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv23 x02
                      Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv22 x04
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Chobham Armor
              If Last: Cartridge (after scenario end)
                       V-Up Unit (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Player Phase - Gundoll Team sortie appears
        Turn 5, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        Combined Hundred Devils Robot's HP below 50% - Burai leaves


   Without the Gundoll Team to hinder, the Hundred Devils Empire invaded the
Saotome Institute and stole Getter Robo G. As they're about to leave with the
loot and dispose of the prisoners, a super robot enters: Texas Mack, sent by
America's professor King to reinforce the troubled Gundoll Team.

   Texas Mack isn't very strong, so avoid fighting until the Gundoll arrives
on Turn 3. Saotome then urges the Getter Team to destroy Getter G now - under
no circumstances it should fall on enemy hands, and can be quickly repaired
for as long as the Institute is standing.

   The first enemies are very easy, but their reinforcements come on Turn 5,
including the gigantic 'Combined Hundred Devils Robot', piloted by Burai, the
very emperor of the Hundred Devils, interested in seeing the 'pathetic ones'
that are giving his troops so much trouble. As huge as the Combined is, it's
not that tough - its 25600 HP are nothing good super robots can't defeat, and
Burai leaves once you take half his HP.

   When put to run, Burai admits he didn't expect you to deliver such a hard
blow even on the Combined Hundred Devils Robot, but assures this doesn't mean
you can win. Most of the crew regard this as soar loser talk, but Norris and
Kamille suspect Burai, in his rage, slipped out he has a more powerful entity
backing him up. Once Getter Robo G is properly repaired, the Gundoll'll move
to its next destination.



Scenario 23 (Japan - Kyoto) - "The Commander's Inheritance"
-----------------------------------------------------------
32x32, Surface
Goal: Protect Kuroshishi, Hourai-Ou, Bakuryuu
Player Units: 17 (Kuroshishi, Hourai-Ou, Bakuryuu, Gundoll + 13)
Initial Enemy Formation: Skeleton [Ilbora] Lv28
                         Banks Lv23 x04
                         Sherman Lv23 x04
                         Banks Lv22 x04
                         Sherman Lv22 x05
Enemy Reinforcements: Mega-Borg Milenne Lv28
                      Synthetic Beast Anihelm Lv23 x01
                      Mettangar Lv23 x04
                      Aiai Lv23 x01
                      Synthetic Beast Anihelm Lv22 x01
                      Aiai Lv22 x03
Clear Bonus - Always: Repair Kit S, Propellant Tank S
              If Last: High Efficiency Radar (after scenario end)
                       Minovsky Craft (after scene end)
Events: Turn 2, Player Phase - Gundoll Team sortie
                               Kuroshishi, Hourai-Ou, Bakuryuu leave
                               Ilbora, Sherman (x2) leave
        Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        Mega-Borg Milenne's HP below 20% - Mileene leaves


   A few minutes ahead of the Gundoll, Jou, Mike and Reny quickly notice the
presence of some weird 'capsules' scattered at Kyoto, but Jou disregards them
to fight Ilbora - just like Ilbora imagined he would.

   With few enemies at range, it's easy to hold on until the Gundoll arrives
at Turn 2. Increasingly concerned about the capsules, Reny wants to take this
chance and retreat to a safe position, but Jou refuses to let Ilbora escape.
Garrison has seen those capsules before, but where?...

   After you deployed your units outside the capsules' area, Ilbora sees his
trap won't catch the whole Gundoll Team as originally planned, so his nearest
enemies will have to do: in an instant, the whole city disappears, including
Jou, Mike and Reny... and _then_ Garrison remembers the capsules are Meganoid
teleport machines used by Commander Daston at the last war.

   Since you clearly can't leave the remaining Zabooms around, tracking your
friends' whereabouts will have to wait until after the battle. Destroying the
enemies doesn't take much effort, but their reinforcements come soon enough:
on Turn 3, Commander Milenne enters, expecting the city to be already free of
you - oh well, at least Ilbora left you weakened.

   The crew tries to have Milenne reveal who's behind all of this, but she's
not the kind that would tell that after, say, losing a honored duel. With the
information you gathered so far, however, Garrison can imagine Don Zauser is
indeed fully recovered and the Meganoids are back, and seeing Ilbora make use
of a Meganoid machine confirms they're allied to Hazard and Zaboom.

   The Meganoids aren't hard - even Milenne isn't much trouble and should be
defeated soon enough. Now that you know for sure Hazard Pasha, Zaboom and the
Meganoids are all together, there's little you can do with that information:
their headquarters are at Mars, far away from your reach. Regarding Jou, Mike
and Reny, you will have to wait for them to contact you, since they might be
anywhere by now...



Scenario 24 (Dormant Volcano Crater) - "Great General Garuda's Tragedy"
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
32x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Combattler V, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Oreana [Oreana] Lv29
                         Magma Beast Demon [Mia] Lv28
                         Branbull Lv23 x01
                         Magma Beast Maspron Lv23 x02
                         Magma Beast Demon Lv23 x04
                         Magma Beast Garms Lv23 x04
                         Branbull Lv22 x01
                         Magma Beast Maspron Lv22 x04
                         Magma Beast Demon Lv22 x03
                         Magma Beast Garms Lv22 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Einstknochen Lv27 x06
                          Einstknochen Lv26 x06
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Big Garuda [Garuda] Lv29
Clear Bonus - Always: Apogee Motor, Cartridge
              If Last: Chou Goukin Z (after scenario end)
                       Chou Goukin New-Z (after scene end)
Events: Turn 3, Player Phase - Gundoll Team sortie
        Ten or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Oreana defeated - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive


   The Combattler Team discovers Garuda's heat track led to a volcano crater
that covers the entrance to the Campbell headquarters, where they are greeted
by the aliens' main leader Oreana herself. Among the large force she summons
against you is Mia, who hopes a speedy victory may preserve her beloved Great
General Garuda's status.

   Since the Gundoll only comes on Turn 3, Combattler V alone must damage as
many enemies as much as possible until then (or you'll spend too many turns);
somebody on the team should have Teppeki, so cast it and wedge yourself into
the enemies to gather lots of kiryoku with little pain. Better stay away from
the Masprons, though - they heal faster than a single unit can hurt them.

   Once the rest of your people arrive, have them kill the beasts Combattler</pre><pre id="faqspan-4">
left already half dead, taking advantage of support attacks and your smallest
units' agility. It won't be easy, but you can at least make some money (most
enemies are worth a nice bounty, especially the Branbulls and Oreana).

   The mysterious enemies come once there are ten or less enemies left, from
all four corners of the battlefield. Oreana's comments suggest their entrance
wasn't expected or planned - and she calls them 'earthlings'.
   
   Oreana has 30600 HP and nasty, long-ranged attacks - it takes a number of
your best moves (and seishins to help you avoid hers) to defeat her and, once
you do, Garuda comes - not concerned about his 'mother', but with Mia: if he
only knew he was a robot like her, things could've been different for them...
Now, a final duel against Combattler V is all he can look forward to.

   Garuda (26000 HP) is slightly easier than Oreana, but should obviously be
fought with care, given many of your units are probably worn out by now. Once
he falls, Hyouma asks what's the connection between the mysterious enemy and
the Campbells, to which Garuda answers you haven't really met any Campbells -
just a bunch of robots.

   Having let that out of his chest, he reveals Oreana landed on this planet
thousands of years ago; since the human technology back then wasn't relevant,
invading - no, conquering the Earth should've been easy... if the mysterious
army hadn't protected the world.



Scenario 25 (Japan - Gulf City) - "Four Warriors, Ignite!"
----------------------------------------------------------
32x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 15 (Dangaioh, Gundoll + 13)
Initial Enemy Formation: Bloody I [Gil] Lv28
                         Bloody I Lv23 x02
                         Sky Tank Lv23 x06
                         Bloody I Lv22 x02
                         Sky Tank Lv22 x06
Enemy Reinforcements: Hambrabi (MS) Lv23 x02
                      Kampfer Lv23 x02
                      Hi-Gogg Lv23 x02
                      Dreissen Lv22 x01
                      Hambrabi (MS) Lv22 x01
                      Baund Doc (MS) Lv22 x01
                      Hi-Gogg Lv22 x01
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, Magnet Coating
              If Last: Chou Goukin Z (after scenario end)
                       Psycho Frame (after scene end)
Events: Turn 4, Player Phase - Dangaioh appears
        Ten or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        (Gil's) Bloody I defeated - Bloody II arrives


   Disallowed to finish Dangaioh at space and sent (yet again) to this lousy
planet on a search mission, Gil feels he's not being treated with the respect
a commander deserves. At least the Gundoll provides something to relieve his
stress against...

   So you have to fight five Bloody I's. At least they are relatively easier
than the ones you battled back on Scene 2: now you have more super robots and
better mobile suits, not to mention they don't spawn a Bloody II when beaten
- the only exception is Gil's mecha, which is also a little bit stronger than
the others.

   Divide your team at a fairly balanced manner to attack the Bangars, while
keeping in mind the top right Bloody I jumps in the water on Turn 2, becoming
an easy prey for Getter 3/Poseidon.

   With ten or less enemies left, mobile suits attack: this force, comprised
mostly by Titans units, is probably from the Zeon Far East Division, the same
one that chased Kamille back on Scene 2. Not caring about your problems with
anybody else, Gil only wants to use the Zeons for his advantage.

   If Gil's still alive by Turn 4, Dangaioh appears to chase him. Now really
furious with the way things turned around, Gil decides not to wait any longer
to destroy his arch-enemies - he can resume his search for 'the stone called
Mutron' later.

   After the battle, the Dangaioh Team reports Banjou and Akira arrived well
to the Londo Bell, at about the same time they left. For the time being, they
must confirm Gil really left the Earth, but promise to meet you again really
soon (that would be before Scenario 26).



Scenario 26 (Above Science Fortress Island) - "Sparking High in the Sky"
------------------------------------------------------------------------
24x32, Base
Goal: Destroy all enemies within 10 turns
Player Units: 16 (Getter Dragon, Kuroshishi, Hourai-Ou, Bakuryuu,
                  Gundoll + 11)
Initial Enemy Formation: Combined Hundred Devils Robot [Burai] Lv30
                         Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv25 x02
                         Mecha Ikkaku-Ki Lv25 x03
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv25 x01
                         Mechasaurus Shigu Lv25 x04
                         Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv24 x02
                         Mecha Ikkaku-Ki Lv24 x03
                         Mechasaurus Zen No.2 Lv24 x01
                         Mechasaurus Shigu Lv24 x02
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv25 x03
                          Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv25 x01
                          Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv24 x01
                          Mecha Hakkou-Ki Lv24 x03
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Mecha Tekkou-Ki Lv25 x02
                          Mechasaurus Dai Lv25 x03
                          Mecha Tekkou-Ki Lv24 x02
                          Mechasaurus Dai Lv24 x01
Clear Bonus - Always: Seishin Energy Device, Anti-Beam Coating, $20000
Events: Turn 2, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Fifteen or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
        Turn 5, Player Phase - Kuroshishi, Hourai-Ou,
                               Bakuryuu appear (optional)


   The Dangaioh Team was sent after the Bangar Space Pirates just before the
Londo Bell reached the colony drop's limit intervention point, so they really
don't know how is the situation there. However, Garrison's readings indicate
the colony hasn't changed its course yet and is set to crash at South America
- probably Jaburo, as Bright guessed earlier.

   Things at space are even more complex because of the (many) enemies whose
objectives you can't understand: Guyzock, who seems to care about nothing but
murdering people, and the space pirates, apparently looking for some sort of
treasure - earlier, Gil was forced to let Dangaioh escape just to go look for
"Mutron".

   For what Jinguuji knows, Mutron is the mysterious energy that powered the
ancient Mu Empire. As the name implies, the Mutron Research Laboratory exists
to study it, but Jinguuji doesn't know much more about it - he himself never
saw the real thing.

                                    ****

   The Londo Bell found a 'vegetable planet' while heading towards the limit
intervention point. It's right between the Moon and the Earth and resulted of
a sudden transformation of some lifeless planetoid. Against Bright's orders,
Dancouga attacked it, only to suffer a counterattack. More concerned with the
colony drop, the Londo Bell chose to ignore it for now and move on.

   Yet another thing Bright failed to tell the Gundoll Team about - in fact,
he specifically ordered the Dangaioh Team not to tell you this. Hadzuki isn't
exactly pleased with Bright's habit of withholding information he feels will
bring you unnecessary concerns, but has more to worry about...

                                    ****

   A gigantic ship, resembling a 'steel island', is flying over the Atlantic
towards Japan: it's Emperor Burai, in a leftover Campbell piece of machinery.
For him, to exploit the works of others is a ground rule of all wars, and so
is to win by taking advantage of your current weakened state.

   Though defeating that monster ship seems unrealistic, everyone agrees you
can't let it win without a fight. Hadzuki then takes this suicidal tendency a
step further and wants the Gundoll to attack it face first - if you wait for
the Island to reach Japan, the cities will suffer a lot of damage even if you
win.

                                    ****

   If you shipped the Gundam and CharZaku parts to space on Scenario 21, the
Dangaioh Team brings in a present to Amuro: the Full Armor Gundam, an upgrade
of the Gundam - courtesy of Anaheim's Nina Purpleton. Amuro doesn't know how
useful this old suit can be, but it certainly brings back memories...

                                    ****

   Burai's fortress is so huge its anti-aircraft guns can't cover all sides,
leaving blind spots the Gundoll could exploit to land on top of the ship. Now
only ten minutes (turns) away from Japan, you must defeat all enemies before
that.

   Much of the island is covered with HP and energy-healing structures - the
Combined Hundred Devils Robot should be lured out of its starting position so
it doesn't have 20% of its HP healed every turn, and other enemies should be
taken down fast if they're standing on a healing spot. Of course, you can use
these structures for your own advantage.

   Because this is the main enemy base, their reinforcements come already on
Turn 2 (at about the same places the first enemies were) and more enemies pop
up (near Burai) once you beat a few enemies, but none of them is difficult.

   If you cleared Scenario 23 as first or second, Jou, Mike and Reny return
on Turn 5, after Dr. Tarsan used his warp beam to teleport them back from the
Moon. By now there isn't much the three can do, since there are probably not
many enemies left.

   This stage is quite easy and can be finished in much less than ten turns.
After the battle, Hadzuki has all damaged units return to the ship, while the
others set up and detonate explosives all over the Fortress Island.



Scene 6: "Jaburo's Recapture"
=============================

 Choice:  Jaburo's Northern Side      ->  Scenario 27
 Choice:  Jaburo's Eastern Side       ->  Scenario 28
 Choice:  Jaburo's Western Side       ->  Scenario 29
 Choice:  Jaburo's Southern Side      ->  Scenario 30
 Last:    Inside Jaburo               ->  Scenario 31


   With the Ghost and Hundred Devils Empires and the Campbells defeated, few
enemies are left to worry about - namely Dr. Hell and his Mikeene bosses, but
they seem to have retreated, and their power is well known to the Mazingers.
The next step is to invade Jaburo again, from where some disturbing news just
came: Hundred Devils and Campbell robots were just seen at Jaburo's southern
side - how can they still be active?

                                    ****

   With her colony drop averted and the situation at the Earth calming down,
Haman Karn judges this is the right time for her next step: Mashymre Cello is
to lead a group of new mobile suits against the Londo Bell, while Glemy Toto
(already sent to Jaburo) destroys the Gundoll Team with help from some Titans
remnants...

   To Mashymre, the Titans' appearance is pretty surprising, but leaving the
greedy Glemy unchecked is just plain worrysome. Turns out Haman already knows
what to expect from him, and considers this assignment a nice opportunity to
see how he behaves.

                                    ****

   If Jou, Mike, Reny didn't return on Scenario 26, they do now. Either way,
they were teleported to the Moon surface, where they joined the Londo Bell in
a battle on Von Braun City.

   Calling to warn you of the Neo Zeon forces landing, Bright apologizes for
not telling about the 'plant planet', but Hadzuki assures he didn't take this
personally - he only wanted to be ready to any possible threats. So far, not
much is known about the asteroid, other than the fact it used humanoid-shaped
weapons to inflict great damage on a reconaissance party.

                                    ****

   All four sides of Jaburo are covered with enemies. The Neo Zeons took the
east; having this attack come so soon after the failed colony drop only shows
how cunning Haman is: she timed this force's deployment to prevent the Londo
Bell from interferring with their atmospheric entry.

   On the west there is a Titans mobile suit group under the Zeons' command.
At the north, the last of the Zeon Surface Forces - Ginius' army, much larger
than expected.

   As mentioned before, the Campbell, Hundred Devils robots are on the south
side - in high numbers. Back then, both armies seemed to have gone on all-out
battles, so you can only assume that, if they really weren't wiped out, it's
only because they are tied to someone else.




Scenario 27 (Jaburo's Northern Side) - "Overhead Demon"
-------------------------------------------------------
24x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Apsalus, Gundoll + 12)
Initial Enemy Formation: Apsalus Perfect Form [Ginius] Lv35
                         Zaku-III Lv28 x01
                         Dreissen Lv28 x02
                         Gouf Custom Lv28 x02
                         Kampfer Lv28 x02
                         Zaku-III Lv27 x03
                         Dreissen Lv27 x01
                         Gouf Custom Lv27 x04
                         Kampfer Lv27 x01
Enemy Reinforcements: Vigna-Ghina [Zabine] Lv34
                      Apsalus Lv30 x02
                      Denan-Zon Lv28 x03
                      Denan-Zon Lv27 x03
NPC Unit: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv96
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, Mega Booster
              If Last: Propellant Tank S (after scenario end)
Events: Turn 5, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
        Turn 8, Player Phase - Tobikage appears


   The supposedly exhausted Zeon surface forces have some impressive lineup,
led by the ultimate Apsalus model. As far as Inah knew, Ginius' project still
had a long way to go before reaching this final production stage, suggesting
her brother received resources and reinforcements from elsewhere.

   Of the initial enemy lineup, probably only the Perfect Apsalus (and maybe
the Zaku-IIIs) will demand effort to defeat. If you want to save a few turns,
finish all Zeons by Turn 5, so their reinforcements don't have the chance to
join the battle.

   The enemy reinforcements come by the top right and bottom left corners of
the map: having been to space recently, only the Dangaioh Team recognizes the
'Crossbone Vanguard'. Now it's clear they're the ones backing Ginius - until
now, even Norris didn't know who his former commander was depending on.

   All these new enemies have high HPs and higher levels, making this battle
a hard one; at least Tobikage appears on Turn 8 (from the top right corner) -
maybe in time to make a difference.

   Aside its 33000 HP, the Perfect Apsalus isn't much better than the common
ones: it just had a spreadshot particle gun added (which, oddly, doesn't have
a very high hit rate) and a longer range main cannon. So, it's still nothing
your super robots can't defeat.

   Because Bright never mentioned the Crossbone Vanguard was assisting Zeon,
it's possible their alliance was with the Zeon surface army only - if so, you
can presume the Vanguard is unrelated to Haman Karn's Neo Zeon.

   If you played this scenario as last, after the Gundoll departs, you see a
little event showing Ginius has (barely) survived the Apsalus' explosion, and
is taken into medical care by Zabine.



Scenario 28 (Jaburo's Eastern Side) - "Axis's Messenger"
--------------------------------------------------------
33x22, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Gundoll + 13)
Initial Enemy Formation: Bawoo (MS) [Glemy] Lv35
                         Gerbera-Tetra Lv28 x03
                         Qubeley Mk-II Lv28 x03
                         Zssa Lv28 x04
                         Baund Doc (MS) Lv28 x01 (optional)
                         Dreissen Lv28 x02
                         Gaplant (MS) Lv28 x02 (optional)
                         Gerbera-Tetra Lv27 x03
                         Qubeley Mk-II Lv27 x02
                         Zssa Lv27 x02
                         Baund Doc (MS) Lv27 x02 (optional)
                         Dreissen Lv27 x01
                         Gaplant (MS) Lv27 x01 (optional)
NPC Unit: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv96
Clear Bonus - Always: Cartridge, Haro
              If Last: Minovsky Craft (after scenario end)
Events: Turn 2, Enemy Phase - Tobikage appears


   After the failure of the 'Operation Stardust' and the cancellation of the
Apsalus Project, Neo Zeon doesn't have many cards left to play. Even so, they
managed to send quite a large force of advanced mobile suits, including some
newtype ones.

   Safely positioned in this accidented terrain, the Neo Zeons' longer-range
weapons have the upper hand against your units, but Glemy wants to ensure his
superiority by calling for reinforcements from Jaburo's western side: if you
haven't played Scenario 29 yet, Titans mobile suits enter.

   If you already cleared Scenario 29, failing to contact Jerid Messa on the
west has Glemy realize the Titans there were already beaten - he decides this
battle is too much for him, and leaves to return to space.

   Because the terrain in this stage hinders your ground units so much, aura
battlers are very useful here - most super robots can fly, but work better on
the ground, meaning you'll have to land them before attacking. The good news
is Tobikage shows up on Turn 2 already.

   Needless to say, Glemy is a hard enemy, so having him run away before the
battle makes things a lot easier, but the Qubeley Mk-IIs near him also demand
attention (especially because they can attack from really far away).

   

Scenario 29 (Jaburo's Western Side) - "Gryps's Ghosts"
------------------------------------------------------
24x24, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Gundoll + 13)
Initial Enemy Formation: Baund Doc (MA) Lv28 x02
                         Baund Doc (MS) Lv28 x02
                         Hambrabi (MS) Lv28 x02
                         Hambrabi (MA) Lv28 x02
                         Gaplant (MS) Lv28 x02
                         Baund Doc (MA) Lv27 x01
                         Baund Doc (MS) Lv27 x02
                         Hambrabi (MS) Lv27 x02
                         Hambrabi (MA) Lv27 x04
                         Gaplant (MS) Lv27 x04
Enemy Reinforcements (1): The-O [Jerid] Lv35
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Psycho Gundam (MS) Lv30 x01
                          Gundam Mk-II Lv28 x02
Clear Bonus - Always: Propellant Tank S, Psycho Frame
              If Last: Psycho Frame (after scenario end)
Events: Turn 3, Enemy Phase - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Ten or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive (optional)
        The-O's HP below 30% - Jerid leaves


   There is no doubt these mobile suits are the strongest models used by the
Titans in the Gryps War days. Back then, Paptimus Scirocco joined forces with
Haman Karn, and there were many rumors about technology and machinery secret
trades between them. Norris doesn't need to confirm this really happened (you
already saw the Zeons using Titans mobile suits before), but adds pilots too
were exchanged between both factions...

   Most enemies are very easy (especially for aura battlers) but, on Turn 3,
one of the traded pilots appears: Jerid Messa, a former Titans and Scirocco's
follower. Failing to defeat Kamille back on Gryps disturbed him to the point
he couldn't move on with his life, he says - and boarding Scirocco's personal
mobile suit to fight for Neo Zeon shows he just stopped caring.

   Kamille's furious to see Jerid still alive, but the other pilots warn him
not to obsess about it, or he'll stop minding what really matters - just like
Jerid and Ilbora.

   If you already cleared Scenario 28, more reinforcements arrive once there
are ten or less enemies left: when you defeated the Neo Zeons east of Jaburo,
these three Gundams were sent to help the west side troops. The particularly
large one attracts your attention - the Psycho Gundam, a Titans newtype model
restored after being destroyed on the last war.

   The Psycho Gundam has 26200 HP and an I-Field, so beam weapons won't work
well against it. Being the unit Four used to ride, it also has a very special
meaning for Kamille: make sure he finishes the Psycho Gundam himself, and it
will be salvageable (it'll only become available for you before Scenario 31).
The Gundam Mk-IIs are ridiculously weak.

   Obviously, Jerid is a tough nut to crack, with a 30000 HP mobile suit and
a high newtype level - only your own newtypes can really match him, and super
robots better throw their best attacks as soon as they enter his range.



Scenario 30 (Jaburo's Southern Side) - "The Controlled Ones"
------------------------------------------------------------
24x32, Surface
Goal: Destroy all enemies
Player Units: 14 (Getter Dragon, Dangaioh, Combattler V,
                  Alteisen, Gundoll + 9)
Initial Enemy Formation: Einstglied Lv31 x02
                         Einstglied Lv30 x02
                         Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv28 x03
                         Sky Tank Lv28 x03
                         Magma Beast Demon Lv28 x03
                         Mechasaurus Dai Lv28 x01
                         Mecha Raiden-Ki Lv27 x02
                         Sky Tank Lv27 x02
                         Magma Beast Demon Lv27 x02
                         Mechasaurus Dai Lv27 x01
Enemy Reinforcements: Einstglied Lv31 x03
                      Banks Lv28 x02
                      Giant Beast Madangar Lv28 x01
                      MechaBoost Tracid Lv28 x02
                      Banks Lv27 x01
                      Giant Beast Madangar Lv27 x02
                      MechaBoost Tracid Lv27 x01
NPC Unit: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv96
Clear Bonus - Always: Chou Goukin Z, Seishin Energy Device
              If Last: Large Generator (after scenario end)
Events: Ten or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements arrive
                                   Tobikage appears
        One turn later - Tobikage combines


   Meeting with Hundred Devils, Bangar and Campbell machines has the Getter,
Dangaioh and Combattler teams all launch, without permission, to battle their
respective arch-enemies. In addition, Kyousuke feels the mysterious enemies
are once again talking to him and deploys as well.

   You already know how to handle these enemies (and most of them are easy),
but beware more arrive (from the top and sides of the field) once you destroy
enough of them - this time, Zaboom, Ghost and Guyzock machines, just to show
units of all armies...

   At the same time, Tobikage too runs in... but does absolutely nothing. In
time, you notice the mysterious enemies are emitting an unaudible sound wave,
and that all your current enemies are AI-controlled, cockpit-less machines -
the mysterious enemies can control such mechs!

   The fact Tobikage is reacting to that reveals it too is an unmanned unit,
susceptible to this control - scaring the crew with the possibility of having
to engage that fast ninja. Fortunately, it proves to be just a scare: by the
beginning of the next turn, Tobikage combines with you.

   Destroying the newest enemies is easier because your super robots are all
full of kiryoku by now, but just reaching them may take turns (especially the
Madangars on the top). After the battle, the pilots are a little relieved to
find out all those defeated armies are truly defeated after all, but Kyousuke
is more and more worried to see only he can hear the enemies...



Scenario 31 (Inside Jaburo) - "The Cause of the Surface's Crisis"
-----------------------------------------------------------------
40x32, Base
Goal: Protect your mothership
Player Units: 16 (Gundoll + 15)
Initial Enemy Formation: Einstglied Lv30 x05
                         Einstknochen Lv30 x13
Enemy Reinforcements (1): Combined Hundred Devils Robot Lv30 x01
                          Bloody I Lv30 x02
                          Combine Giant Beast Gardon Lv30 x03
                          Magma Beast Maspron Lv30 x04
                          Machine Beast Apolon A1 Lv30 x06
Enemy Reinforcements (2): Giant Beast Madangar Lv30 x04
                          Mecha Tekkou-Ki Lv30 x04
                          Machine Beast Genova M9 v30 x06
Enemy Reinforcements (3): Einstregisseur Lv50 x01
Enemy Reinforcements (4): Einstregisseur Lv60 x01
NPC Unit: Tobikage [Tobikage] Lv??
Clear Bonus - none
Events: Sixteen or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements (1) arrive
        Twelve or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements (2) arrive
                                      (optional)
        Ten or less enemies left - Enemy Reinforcements (3) arrive
                                   Tobikage appears
        Einstregisseur defeated - Enemy Reinforcements (4) arrive


   The last time you came this far, the aura road opened up and dragged half
of your crew away. After they were returned safely to this world, nobody gave
much of a thought about it, but that event raised many new doubts: since the
mysterious enemies' units were seen on Bistonwell too, how can you tell which
dimension did they originally come from? Are they capable of leaping at will
between dimensions? If so, what'll stop them from escaping into Bistonwell as
soon as you invade Jaburo?
 
   For all Hadzuki cares, these questions aren't relevant now, as you didn't
fight all your way to this moment only to have second thoughts about entering
Jaburo. Besides, "the Gundoll's running out of time..." (?)

                                    ****

   It's somewhat sad to notice the Earth couldn't defend itself without help
from other worlds. Fa points out the aliens don't look any different from the
humans - if she didn't know better, she wouldn't be able to tell them apart.
Maybe aliens and humans have a common origin...

   That would also help explaining why the Planet Sherma mechs Jou, Mike and
Reny pilot seem so similar to Earth's - even though they are completely alien
technology, the three managed to figure out how to control and mantain them
(but still don't quite understand their mechanics).

                                    ****

   A heavy electromagnetic jamming prevents you from scanning Jaburo's inner
complex. This kind of interference is unlike anything ever seen before - and,
by your experience, this means the mysterious enemies are probably involved.
Again claiming "there's no time left", Hadzuki won't assemble a reconaissance
party - you'll have to find out the hard way.

   Bright's condition is also unknown: Anaheim reported the Londo Bell won a
battle on the Moon surface, but their transmission fades out before informing
more. Banjou or Romina couldn't be contacted either, leaving you essentially
blind about the war in space.

                                    ****

   Now that you're inside Jaburo, Hadzuki at last reveals why he was in such
a hurry to invade the place: the Gundoll will soon no longer be able to move.
The dragon's nuclear fusion reactor simply wasn't meant to function for more
than 183 days - this has always been its Achilles' heel.

   All this time, Hadzuki had been timing his campaign with this deadline in
mind, counting on the fact his crew would have to fly to space once the Earth
surface was secured. There, they can use the Londo Bell's battleship and the
Gundoll's services won't be necessary.

   Divide your forces in two to cover both entrances of the fortress, taking
care of the few outside Einstknochens in the meantime. Since this is going to
be a long, hard battle, you better save as much ammo and SP as possible, and
try to keep your super robots and aura battlers high on energy.

   You only need to destroy two enemies for their reinforcements to show up:
AI-controlled machines scattered all over the fortress. Oddly, in addition to
the Machine Beast, Hundred Devils and Ghost Empire mechs you're already used
to fight, there are also Bloody I's, machines that were never widely deployed
on the Earth surface - suggesting the Bangars may be directly supporting the
mysterious enemies.

   The units you send towards the lower entrance are probably better left by
there: they won't reach the top corner of the fortress before the others, and
most enemies will come your way anyway.

   If you played Scenario 30 as third or fourth, more enemies show up (north
and east of the Gundoll, and at the fortress) once there are twelve opponents
left: postponing that scenario gave the mysterious army time to bring in and
hide these underground. They're relatively easy, but don't help when you need
to save ammo...

   With only ten opponents left, a new enemy enters. At the same time, Chum,
Mia, Amuro, Kamille and Kyousuke freeze for a second, apparently because they
can sense the enemy's huge power (all of them have high intuitive or psychic
powers). Tobikage too appears to help.

   The Einstregisseur has 45000 HP and nothing but powerful weapons, and its
high level lets clear he's extremely hard to both hit and dodge. Now would be
a good time to use some (not much, mind you) of the SP you've been saving to
deliver some massive super robot top attacks.

   Once you finally beat the Einstregisseur, some comment it wasn't as tough
as you expected. While everyone's already starting to get used to the idea of
going to space to face another campaign, Kyousuke can't help but feeling the
enemy you just fought felt 'artificial', and wonder if that was the real one.
Confirming his suspects, another Einstregisseur suddenly shows up, this time
by the southeastern corner of the map.

   The second Einstregisseur is stronger than the first (46000 HP, and level
60, meaning seishins are absolutely necessary for even the best units to have
a chance of hitting him) and is aiming for the Gundoll, though Hadzuki can't
understand why did it attack with such an indirect strategy. Anyway, you have
to take him down before he gets to your ship.

   If anyone's at his range, the Einstregisseur will stop to attack him/her,
so you can place someone with a (very) high evade rate to hold him back until
your best pilots arrive but, even if you don't do that, he will take a while
to reach the Gundoll - at a certain point, he moves into the city, which will
hinder him a little.

   Feel free to use everything you have against this Einstregisseur, as he's
the last tough enemy you'll have to defeat. Once you do, and everyone takes a
second to make sure no more enemies are coming, Hadzuki calls all units back
into the ship: an urgent transmission from Anaheim Electronics made clear you
can't wait another second to go into space...



Epilogue
========


   With the situation on the Earth surface apparently under control, Hadzuki
believes what was left of the Union Army should have no problems handling the
rest. Using the very last of its energy, the Gundoll is going to space.

   Because Dr. Hell's whereabouts are still unknown, leaving the Earth is a
risky bet, but Hadzuki's more concerned about the Londo Bell's whereabouts at
the moment. In the end, you haven't learned much about your new enemies, and
even allies like Tobikage remain a mystery.

   Though they're used to calling it the 'plant planet', the thing the Londo
Bell encountered at space isn't actually a planet, but a bundle of vegetables
- more like a "planet-scale object". As mentioned earlier, the Dangaioh Team
didn't see it move at all, but a counterattack did come from it - maybe it is
part of some kind of invader force.

                                    ****

   Kyousuke believes the "Legend of the Ninja" Princess Romina followed here
may very well refer to Tobikage. Reny points out Tobikage's powerful, but the
legend talks about a power that could destroy planets... Mike thinks this is
just an exaggeration - nothing can have that much power.

                                    ****

   Shou feels the whole Earth is engulfed on a perverse energy, like an evil
aura, that now has started to grow... Afraid for the fate of both surface and
Bistonwell, and maybe even space, he is only conforted by Marvel's assurance
he's not alone. Todd, on the other hand, can sense this energy too, but won't
affirm it's good or bad, even if it might, as Shou says, "be doing something
with the basis of the world".

                                    ****

   Satellite images give you your first sights of the plant planet. It looks
like "a large open mouth" that would be able to swallow anything with a bite.
This analogy may be more appropriate than you think: it's slowly approaching
th Earth! An object that large is likely to interfere with the gravity of the
Earth and the Moon, causing all sorts of natural disasters and calamities.

   The Dangaioh Team notices the planet seems to have changed: it used to be
a dark, little planet, hard to distinguish by the naked eye. Now, it seems to
be emitting its own light...

   Hadzuki decides not to change his plans of going to the "PLS Black Point"
- his previously combined rendezvous point with the Londo Bell. This location
is directly above the plant planet: Amuro has a gut feeling Bright's already
near there, which could help explaining why you can't contact him - there may
be some electromagnetic interference rendering him unreachable.

   Now with the perspective of having to fight an entire star, the Gundoll's
crew nervously braces itself for their travel to space...

                                    ****


   "The Earth Crisis battle has come to an end. Now, the next stage will be
the space.


   But that won't be so simple.

   There are invaders who haven't shown themselves yet;
   The mysterious enemies with their still unknown objectives;
   And the currently uncontactable Londo Bell.

   ...Carrying these various questions, the Gundoll gathers its last strenght
to head towards the quaked space.


   ...What nobody knew then was, that dragon's Ascension was a prelude to the
upcoming decisive battle."




HELP NEEDED------------------------------------------------------------------

   I will place in this section any doubts I might have about the game. Hope-
fully someone might be able to help me with them. More questions will be pos-
ted as they arise.

  - no questions yet...



CONTACT INFORMATION----------------------------------------------------------

   If anyone has questions, comments or suggestions to make, please feel free 
to mail me at the address written on the beginning of this document. However,
before doing that, please pay attention to the following requests/facts:


  - Write "FAQ" as your subject, just so I can separate your mail from junk
    mail and things alike.

  - Due to the amount of mail I receive, I might not be able to respond all
    e-mails. So, if you receive no response, it doesn't mean it hasn't been
    received and/or read. Don't send it over and over.

  - I know the 'canonical' names for mechs and characters from all the Gun-
    dam series; I just happen not to agree with some of them. Do not ask me
    to change that. However, please DO let me know the *official* names for
    any series, especially non-Gundam ones.

  - Feel free to point grammar mistakes or anything like that. English is
    not my native language, and advice is always welcome.

  - Do not ask me where you can get "romz". If it's up to me, you won't get
    them; as a matter of fact, do not ask me ANYTHING about ROMs, emulators
    or patches, nor complain to me if you can't run it on your computer.

  - No 'l33t' language please. What can I say, I just hate it.
 


VERSION HISTORY--------------------------------------------------------------

 V 1.0  (04/23/2007) - Initial Release.



CREDITS----------------------------------------------------------------------

 * Banpresto - for having created this game.
 * Bandai - for having made the Wonderswan. Besides, Banpresto is a company
   of the Bandai group.
 * Glenn Rosenthal - for having created JWPce, the program I used to trans-
   late most of the japanese text and information of the game.


End of file.
