Rayman Boss FAQ for PS
Version 1.0
By oracle93
eaglefourth@yahoo.com

!!!!!!!!
Contents
!!!!!!!!

Introduction
Controls
FAQ
Boss Guide
	Boss 1: Little Moskito
	Boss 2: Moskito
	Boss 3: Mr. Sax
	Boss 4: Mr. Stone
	Boss 5: Opera Mama
	Boss 6: Space Mama
	Boss 7: Mr. Skops
	Boss 8: Mr. Dark
Version History
Special Thanks
Disclaimer

!!!!!!!!!!!!
Introduction
!!!!!!!!!!!!

Hello again! Oracle93 here, presenting his third FAQ: a boss guide to 
end all boss guides. This guide is for Rayman, an old game from the 
90s. It's cartoony, it's side-scrolling, and you control with the D-
Pad. However, it's an extremely fun and challenging game, and all those 
new games with flashy graphics and complicated control systems and 
"innovative" crap should take an example from it. On a side note, I 
highly recommend the sequels, The Great Escape and Hoodlum Havoc.

This is a guide for the 8 bosses in the game. If you are having trouble 
with one, hit Ctrl+F, then type "Boss" and the number it is.

My e-mail address is at the top of the guide in case you find a problem 
I haven't covered. EL NOA YOU SPAMMO! SPAM=BAD! NNOO SSPPAAMM!!!!

Enjoy!

!!!!!!!!
Controls
!!!!!!!!

D-Pad(left/right): Move Rayman left/right

D-Pad(down): Duck

R1: Crawl right

R2: Crawl left

Square: Punch

Hold Square, then release: Charged punch

X: Jump

X, then X in midair: Helicopter

O: Run

Start: Pause

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions)
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Q: Can I put your FAQ on my website?

A: Yes, but ONLY with my explicit permission.

!!!!!!!!!!
Boss Guide
!!!!!!!!!!

----------------------
Boss 1: Little Moskito
----------------------

Location: The Dream Forest, Anguish Lagoon
Strategy: This boss only has three attacks. In the first, he will fly 
down from the ceiling and attack. In the second, he will zoom across 
the floor. The third is like the second, only higher up. To defeat him, 
all you need to do is attack him at the right time. The first attack is 
a prime opportunity. When he comes from the ceiling, punch him when he 
gets low enough. He can also be punched while charging. Watch for his 
head on the outskirts of the screen, this means he is about to charge. 
If he is on the ground, attack when he gets close enough. If he is 
higher up, jump before you punch. A few hits to defeat this easy boss. 
(Side note: I think this guy is Bzzit, from Rayman 2, but have yet to 
find conclusive evidence)

---------------
Boss 2: Moskito
---------------

Location: The Dream Forest, Moskito's Nest
Strategy: This boss is a lot like the last one, except with more HP and 
some new attacks. Again, you cause damage by landing punches at the 
right time. Attack during the charges and hovering periods to get the 
most hits. The three new attacks involve spiked balls. First, Moskito 
can fly across the top of the screen with a small spike ball. When you 
run underneath, he will drop it. Avoid this by moving in the opposite 
direction from Moskito. Second, he will fly into the arena with a 
medium-sized spike ball. He will then drop it, so avoid it as it 
bounces. Finally, he can carry a huge spike ball across the screen. 
Simply duck to avoid this.

---------------
Boss 3: Mr. Sax
---------------

Location: Band Land, Mr. Sax's Hulabaloo
Strategy: Mr. Sax, as is customary for all world bosses except Space 
Mama and Mr. Dark, will chase you before the fight, which, unlike with 
all the other bosses, is an opportunity to score some hits. As he 
chases you, you will see wrong notes (those spiky musical notes that 
are all over Band Land). Punch them back at him to damage him. You can 
deal a maximum of 4 damage this way. After the chase, you drop into the 
arena, and the real battle begins. Note that Mr. Sax often crosses the 
area, using a combination of walking and jumping. You'll need to get on 
the other side of him or you'll take damage, so run underneath him when 
he jumps. Mr. Sax has three attacks. The first is one, two, or three 
bombs that explode in eight directions. The second is a bomb that will 
explode and damage you if you're on the ground. In the third, he shoots 
wrong notes which bounce along the floor. This attack is the way to 
defeat him. When the wrong notes are played, punch them and they'll fly 
at Mr. Sax. Compared to some of the other bosses in Rayman, Mr. Sax is 
easy to defeat. You'll probably only need one or two tries.

-----------------
Boss 4: Mr. Stone
-----------------

Location: The Blue Mountains, Mr. Stone's Peaks
Strategy: Mr. Stone is one of the more difficult bosses of the game. At 
the start of the fight, jump onto the boulder and grab the large power 
ball. While in the air, punch the head of the statue to damage Mr. 
Stone, then helicopter to get over him as he charges. Watch out for 
chunks of the rock when he breaks it. A boulder will drop from the 
ceiling now, so watch out for it and the pieces after it breaks. 
Another rock will fall and Mr. Stone will catch it. Quickly knock the 
rock out of his hand before he throws it. If you do this right, the 
rock bounces to the other end of the room. Jump on it and punch the 
statue for another hit. As before, helicopter to get over Mr. Stone 
while he lumbers at you. Head into the middle of the room now. Mr. 
Stone will call three rock puppies for you to defeat. After you beat 
them, look out for falling boulders, then knock the rock out of his 
hand again. Jump on it and punch the statue, then helicopter over Mr. 
Stone. On his fourth life, he will shoot blasts of energy at you. Avoid 
them by jumping and ducking, then repeat the process: avoid boulders, 
punch boulder in Mr. Stone's hand, jump on boulder, punch head of 
statue, helicopter over Mr. Stone. Now, he will get a rock and throw it 
at you. Avoid it, then look out for the pieces and Mr. Stone. After 
some attacking, a cloud will appear. Jump on it, and punch the head of 
the statue. At this point, Mr. Stone won't do anything you haven't seen 
before, so punch the head three more times to defeat the evil lord of 
the Blue Mountains.

------------------
Boss 5: Opera Mama
------------------

Location: Picture City, Eraser Plains
Strategy: Rayman is on a stage, and a ship comes in on the background. 
Before you fight Opera Mama herself, you must defeat her two crewmates. 
The first one jumps out to fight you head-on, while the second one 
bombs you from the crow's nest. The first enemy uses his earring as a 
boomerang. Avoid it and punch him until he falls. Now, hit the crow's 
nest three times to knock out the pirate with the bombs/ He will throw 
his bombs at you, so jump over them. Punch him and he should go down 
quickly. Finally, Opera Mama jumps out of the ship. First, she will 
fire three knives out of her cannon. They will stick in the ground, so 
bounce on one of the handles. Opera Mama will rise up, so punch her in 
the head. Back on the ground, she will fire four knives which rotate 
for a few seconds at the top of the screen. After that, they will fly 
at you, one by one. They aren't difficult to avoid, as once they start 
to move, they can only stay on the same path. Once they have all fired, 
Opera Mama will shoot knives into the ground again. Bounce on them to 
attack, then avoid the four flying knives again. Repeat the process one 
more time and Opera Mama gains a new attack. She fires knives into the 
ground, like before (attack with them), but after a while, they will 
start to rotate, and shoot horizontally at you. Repeat the process of 
the other attacks for victory.

------------------
Boss 6: Space Mama
------------------

Location: Picture City, Space Mama's Crater
Strategy: I HATE THIS BOSS! My complete and total hatred for this boss 
knows no bounds! The blazing fire of a million suns is only a tiny 
fraction of how much I hate this boss! Just thought we should clear 
that up. Anyway, the housewife from hell enters in a flying washing 
machine, which you should duck to avoid. When the machine lands, Space 
Mama comes out and advances toward you, firing a blast from her rolling 
pin (avoided by ducking). After the shot, punch her in the head. She 
will move closer now, so repeat the process until you either get hit or 
Space Mama jumps. If she jumps, wait until she lands, then punch her 
and avoid a rolling pin blast (be warned that she can land on you). 
After you have depleted about half of her HP this way, the Challenge of 
Exploding Pots will begin. Whenever a pot explodes, it will go out in 
two directions. Also, during this section, watch out for Space Mama 
whirling across the arena. Duck to avoid the first two pots, then 
quickly crawl to the left or right to escape the next one. Now, Space 
Mama creates a layer of pots. Crawl into the gap to stay safe. Crawl 
into a corner to avoid the next three, then quickly crawl into the 
middle. Stand up now, and run under the gap. Duck to avoid the Space 
Mama, then run to the gap on the other side. Duck again, then run back 
to the other side (see why I hate this boss?). Finally, crawl into the 
last gap to survive the great Exploding Pot Challenge. Here, you have 
an opportunity to attack Space Mama in the normal way, so do it. Now, 
in a section that is almost as irritating as the last one (but not 
quite), Space Mama hides behind the washing machine. To get her out, 
you will have to punch the machine until all the lights on the dial 
have turned on. She will fire a short low shot, then a high one which 
can be either long or short. Jump over the low attack, then punch the 
machine and duck under the high one. This may take a while but does 
work. All you have to do is make sure not to screw up. After you 
destroy the machine, it bounces, so watch out. Fight Space Mama like in 
the beginning, and after 4-5 more hits, she'll go down.

-----------------
Boss 7: Mr. Skops
-----------------

Location: The Caves of Skops, Mr. Skops' Stalactites

Phase 1 Strategy: You begin on a bridge of five platforms, in front of 
a sleeping Mr. Skops. Punch him to wake him up, and he'll destroy part 
of the bridge. After doing this, he shoots his claw at you. Jump over 
it, and beware of getting hit when it comes back to him. He'll destroy 
another part of the bridge and shoot his claw again. This process will 
repeat until four of the platforms are gone. Mr. Skops will move back a 
bit, so helicopter and grab the ledge. Don't jump up, though. He will 
move forward and shoot his claw, then move back and pound the ground. 
When he is back, you have to stand on the platform, when he is forward, 
hang off it. Repeat this until Mr. Skops sinks the stone platform into 
the lava. Run and jump to the gold platform to avoid death. This 
platform is the first in a series of three that lead to another stone 
ledge where Mr. Skops is. Do not move from this spot. Wait until Mr. 
Skops destroys the two platforms in front of you. At this point, he 
will shoot a blue beam at your platform. Wait until you can jump over 
it, then leap and helicopter to Mr. Skops's platform. He will sink the 
stone ledge, so run right, swing across the rings, and run right again. 
Touch the sign to enter battle with Mr. Skops. (I know that this 
segment is actually a level, not a boss fight, but since it involves 
Mr. Skops and the strategy is so precise and complicated, I figured it 
was worth including in the guide)

Phase 2 Strategy: This is the true battle. Considering the difficulty 
of the fights with Space Mama and Mr. Stone, you'd think this would be 
difficult, but it's actually surprisingly easy. Mr. Skops cannot be 
harmed by any of your attacks. Therefore, in a staple of boss fights, 
you must deflect his attacks to damage him. Mr. Skops only has two 
attacks: the claw shot he used in phase 1, and a homing blue beam. The 
beams are what you damage him with. Though they may seem to be homing 
in on Rayman, they're actually tracking his fist. Given this, wait 
until the beam is fired, then punch Mr. Skops. The beam will fly into 
his face and hurt him. Do this 7 times, and Mr. Skops walks up to you, 
giving you much less dodging space. Hit him with one more beam to win.

----------------
Boss 8: Mr. Dark
----------------

Location: Candy Chateau, Mr. Dark's Dare

Phase 1 Strategy: This is it, folks, the final confrontation! Mr. Dark 
has a whopping 4 different forms! At the beginning of phase 1, he takes 
away your power to punch, and dangles it on a fishing line for a few 
seconds before pulling it away. Now, you have to avoid his various fire 
techniques. First, he shoots two fireballs that move in a wave. Jump 
between them, or over them when they converge. Next, he creates pillars 
of fire that move from side to side. Get between them and move with 
them. Sometimes, he will do both at once. Eventually, the pillars of 
fire start to close in, and Mr. Dark says you're doomed. Stay between 
them, and at the last minute, an electoon will give you back your 
punch. This will begin phase 2.

Phase 2 Strategy: This boss is an odd combination of Mr. Stone and Mr. 
Skops. The weak spot is the head, but if you try to punch now, he 
blocks it with his claw. You must wait until the claw is out of the 
way, i.e., when he has thrown it at you. Jump over it and punch the 
boss in midair to damage him. After several hits, phase 3 will begin.

Phase 3 Strategy: You're fighting twin Space Mamas, but don't worry, 
there aren't any pots or washing machines. They will just move up and 
down the sides of the screen, shooting at you with their rolling pins. 
Jump or duck the shots. The great thing about this fight is, not only 
can the Space Mamas be attacked at any time, but if one is hit, damage 
counts for both. Keep punching, and after eight hits you'll get to the 
final battle!

Phase 4 Strategy: This is the final boss of Rayman, a hybrid of Moskito 
and Mr. Sax. You will automatically be shrunk for this fight. When the 
boss jumps, run underneath. The impact will catapult you into the air, 
so attack the head. Eight more hits, and you've won Rayman!

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Version History
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Version 1.0: Completed contents, introduction, controls, FAQ, guide for 
every boss, special thanks, disclaimer.

!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Special Thanks
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

oracle93: Me, for being the self-proclaimed greatest Boss Guide writer 
of all time.

CjayC: For being the one who started gameFAQS, the site that hosted my 
crap walkthroughs when I had nowhere else to turn.

Ubisoft: For creating Rayman, Rayman 2 and Rayman 3, unsung classics of 
the gaming world.

!!!!!!!!!!
Disclaimer
!!!!!!!!!!

"Rayman" copyright 1998 by UbiSoft Productions, Inc, all rights 
reserved.
This Boss FAQ copyright 2006 by oracle93.
This Boss FAQ may not be sold, distributed, or placed on any website 
other than GameFAQs without the author's explicit permission.
Violation of this agreement is prohibited and punishable by law.


