Rockman & Forte for the WonderSwan

FAQ by alex cross (alexcross21@hotmail.com)

Version 1.0
10/2/2002


------------
Contents

1. Brief intro
2. Controls
3. Tips and differences in this game
4. Item Shop
5. Mini Walkthrough
6. Weapons Description
7. Thanks
------------
1. Brief intro
------------

The game starts out as a Rockman type robot rampages through the city. 
Rockman intends to save the city from harm while Forte is sent by Wily to 
find out why there's a resemblance between this mysterious new robot and 
Rockman.

------------
2. Controls
------------

Rockman:

B button: fire (hold down to charge a shot)
A button: jump
X4 button: move left
X2 button: move right
X3 + A buttons: slide

Forte:

B button: Fire (hold down for rapid fire, can be shot in seven directions)
A button: jump (press again in the air for a double jump).
X4 button: move left
X2 button: Move right
X3 + A buttons: dash

------------
3. Tips and differences in this game
------------

Keep in mind while playing this game that when an enemy is destroyed all 
shots by that enemy disappear. This will change your fighting style as it is 
to your advantage to stand in the line of the enemy's fire and keep shooting.

Another thing to note is that you will automatically fall off ladders when 
your feet touch the bottom of it. This will throw off a lot of people who are 
used to other Rockman games. Also, when climbing down a ladder to another 
screen you should be prepared to be dropped off from the ladder when you go 
to the next screen.

Your special weapons will not be recharged after beating a level.

I have found that no boss is 'weak' to another boss's weapon in this game. In 
fact, all weapons seem to do the same amount of damage. The only difference 
damage wise ends up coming from how long the weapon stays 'within' the boss 
(as special weapons travel through bosses). For example, when you use Konro 
Man's weapon on Aircon Man, it will do more damage if you use it underneath 
him then if you were to fire off a shot next to him (as the Aircon will be 
'hit' more times when it is fired underneath him). This makes the Barrier 
Wind/Forte Cyclone very powerful as it moves in a wave as will 'hit' a boss 
more. On Dangan Man (a very wide Boss) this weapon can take off almost half 
his life in one shot. 

Of the items that can be bought at the shop I recommend the armor the most 
(though for Forte you might want to get the power shot first).

------------
4. Item shop
------------

For what each item does as well as it's cost consult what number matches what 
is in the grid as you would find it in the item shop. Note that except for 
extra lives you can only have one of each of these items.


|  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |  5  |  6  |
-------------------------------------
|  7  |  8  |  9  |  10 |  11 |  12 |
-------------------------------------
|  13 |  14 |  15 |  16 |  17 |  18 |


1. Extra life for Rockman. 200 bolts.

2. Extra life for Forte. 200 bolts.

3. Exit unit. Allows you to escape a stage you've already beaten. One use per 
purchase.  50 bolts.

4.  Rush Coil, for Rockman only. Allows you to perform a high jump off of 
Rush's back. One use per purchase. 100 bolts.

5. Treble, for Forte only. Enables you to fly for a short amount of time. One 
use per purchase. 200 bolts.

6. Tango, for Rockman only. Tango bounces around damaging enemies. One use 
per purchase. 200 bolts.

7.Power shot, for Forte only. Increases the damage Forte's regular weapon 
does. 300 bolts.

8. Phase shot, for Forte only. Allows your shots to go through walls. 300 
bolts.

9. Beat, for Rockman only. You become invincible for a short period while 
Beat damages enemies that he comes in contact with. One use per purchase. 300 
bolts.

10. Energy equalizer. When you pick up weapon energy icons they are now split 
between the weapons that have been used. 150 bolts

11. Energy recover up. Increases the amount of energy you get when you grab 
energy icons. 300 bolts.

12. Energy saver. Cuts down on the amount of energy your boss weapons use. 
150 bolts.

13. Health recover up. Increases the amount of energy you get when you grab 
health icons. 200 bolts.

14. Shell. When activated shells will show up on the level you are in that 
can be shot for items. The effects last for the level or until you die. One 
use per purchase. 50 bolts.

15.Eddie, for Rockman only. Eddie will drop a random item for you. One use 
per purchase. 150 bolts.

16. Reggae, for Forte only. Same as Eddie.150 bolts.

17. Spike saver. Instead of getting killed by spikes you only get damaged. 
One use per purchase. 20 bolts

18. Armor. Lessens the amount of damage you receive. 300 bolts.


------------
5. Mini Walkthrough
------------

In this section I'll give some pointers on how to get through the levels (if 
needed) and give strategies on bosses and mini bosses. After the Grey Devil 
level you can choose which order you take on the next four bosses. This is 
the order I think will give you the best advantage over the bosses.

------------
Grey Devil 

Level Tips: None needed.

Mini Boss Strategy: None (there isn't one).

Boss Strategy: The Grey Devil is only vulnerable when it sticks out it's eye. 
Try to stand about a half step away from it so that the globs it throws go 
over you. You don't want to make contact with the globs as they will prevent 
you from moving freely and slowly drain your life. Fire your weapon 
repeatedly to get free if this happens. After the second time it sticks it's 
eye out the Grey Devil will then turn into a ball and roll to the other side 
of the room. Simply jump over him when he does this and repeat the whole 
process until he is defeated. 

------------
Konro Man

Level Tips: This level is pretty straight foreword, though it's good to keep 
in mind that enemy shots disappear with the enemy itself when jumping from 
platform to platform. Also, keep an eye out for mines, that will flash and 
blow up a few seconds after you step on them.

Mini Boss Strategy: Just stay out from directly underneath the hand and keep 
firing at it. If you start running out of floor, head to either the left or 
right wall as it has ledges that can't be destroyed.

Boss Strategy: Krono Man will fire shots up that will rain down on you and 
stay on the ground to form obstacles, during which time he can't be hurt. 
While these shots are coming down they can be destroyed if shot. He will then 
try to blast you with walls of fire that can be easily jumped over. He will 
then jump from one side of the room to the other, firing a blast when he is 
at the center of the room. A very easy boss to beat with your normal weapon, 
beating him will get you the Flame Shower for Rockman and Flame Mixer for 
Forte.

------------
Aircon Man

Level Tips: This level is covered with spikes that will kill you with one 
touch. After the Mini Boss you will have to ride enemy balloons that you'll 
have to 'pump up' by shooting them, and 'steer' them by facing the direction 
you want them to go to. Only shoot them until they are pumped up, though, as 
a more shots will blow it up. Also, in these areas you might find it easier 
to slide/dash off the balloons rather then jumping off them. And don't miss 
the secret area to the right on your way up.

Mini Boss Strategy: Use the Flame Shower/Mixer on him (the Flame weapons 
shot's will go though the moving bars) while jumping over the shots from the 
enemies on either side. If you don't have the Flame weapon while playing as 
Rockman, you'll have to reflect your shots off of the enemies and make it 
past the bars that are moving from side to side. As Forte you can simply fire 
directly up.

Boss Strategy: Aircon Man will start off by shooting homing weapons at you 
(he can't be hurt when he does this). Once you destroy them he will then jump 
to the top of the screen blowing clouds at you. These clouds will only hurt 
you if you hit the sides and will kill you if you get caught  between two of 
them. You can use them as to stand on, however, and will have to do this so 
that you can fire at him (as Rockman) if you don't have the Flame 
Shower/Mixer. Once done with the clouds he will come down on the opposite 
side of the room and will try to suck you into him, while also sucking in 
some projectiles that you can destroy. Repeat process until you've beaten 
him. You'll get the Barrier Wind/ Forte Cyclone.


------------
Dangan Man

Level Tips: Not much to this level, though you'll run into a new type of 
enemy that fires clouds that are exactly like those from Aircon Man. There 
are also ceiling panels that will fall on you when you are halfway under 
them.

Mini Boss Strategy: A Simple boss that fires three homing missiles at you. 
Once you destroy them, he jumps over to the other side of the room. I always 
use my normal weapon.

Boss Strategy: Dangan Man will jump over to the other side of the room, throw 
stun weapons at you, and then try to ram you twice and repeat. By far the 
easiest way to beat him is using the Barrier Wind/Forte Cyclone as it only 
takes three shots. Beating him will get you the Rockn Vulcan and the Forte 
Vulcan
------------
Komuso Man

Level Tips: This level has some mines and has platforms that will fall once 
you have touched them. Nothing that's all that hard.

Mini Boss Strategy: Another simple boss that I use the normal weapon on. When 
it's on the lower half of the screen I keep to the upper and vise versa.

Boss Strategy: This guy can be a pain. He'll run to the center of the room, 
split himself into three, and have each fire off three shots at you (which 
thankfully can be destroyed). He'll do this three times while being immune to 
harm for the most part. When he's done, he'll stand in the center and call 
flames which will go back and forth. At this point get next to him and use 
the Flame Shower/Mixer while keep the fire button held down. Once you beat 
him you will receive Doppel Crash and Doppeler Attack.


------------
Clock Men

Level Tips: New to the game are spring boards that will launch you higher, 
and enemies that can only be hurt when they are at a certain angle. There is 
also an area where the ceiling raises and lowers that is lined with spikes. 
Try to take your time with this as the spikes will kill you with one hit. 
Another new obstacle are arrows that reverse which way is up and down. Not 
too hard to deal with, just keep in mind that your controls are still the 
same.

Mini Boss Strategy: Easy boss that jumps around the room. When it lands it 
causes stuff to fall from the ceiling. I always use my normal weapon.

Boss Strategy: The Clock Men will try to come at you on both sides and will 
eventually freeze you. Use Barrier Wind/Forte Cyclone on them for a fast and 
easy victory. With them gone you get Time Switch/ Time Bomb.


------------
Compass Man

Level Tips: Nothing new in this level.

Mini Boss Strategy: This Boss can only be hurt when the tanks head pops up. 
The top head will follow you around and either try to blast you or throw a 
spike at you. Again, I use my normal weapon.

Boss Strategy: This can be the most annoying bosses in the game. He 
separates, with his top have firing at you while his lower half tries to ram 
you. He can only be hurt by shooting the top of his lower half. However as 
this is at an odd height you will have to shoot at him while doing a half 
jump. Try using either your normal weapon or the Barrier Wind/Forte Cyclone. 
You don't get a weapon for beating him.

------------
Rockman Shadow

Level Tips: The only new thing in this level is an area where the floor 
slowly falls over the course of three screens. If you are playing as Rockman 
you will have to use the clouds that the enemies blow at you as a platform to 
get past the third screen.

Mini Boss Strategy: This boss will cling to the ceiling and jump down to fire 
three homing shots at you. Only it's cannon can be hurt. A full jump will 
enable you to fire at it, so it's easy enough to kill it with your normal 
weapon.

Boss Strategy: Rockman Shadow has three different patterns. He will start off 
by jumping to the center of the screen and either firing a shot at you and 
then sliding at you, or he will just slide at you. He's easy enough to avoid 
and fire off shots of your weapon of choice. When his health gets half way 
down he will start teleporting directly above you and he will try to use a 
giant drill on you. When he is done with his drill attack rocks will fall 
from the ceiling. At this point only his head can be harmed. Once he gets 
down to a quarter of his life he will charge you and try to hit you with an 
energy sword. I recommend using the Barrier Wind/Forte Cyclone on these last 
to patterns of his.


------------
6. Weapons Descriptions
------------

The first named weapon in a group is Rockman's and the second one is Forte's. 
The weapons are listed as you will find them in the weapon screen.



Rockn Vulcan & Forte Vulcan
Received From: Dangan Man
Description: The Rockn Vulcan fires a shot that will split into three 
different shots. The Forte Vulcan has limited homing abilities.

Flame Shower & Flame Mixer
Received From: Konro Man
Description: Both weapons can be used as a sort of flamethrower by holding 
the weapon button down. Once released the flames will go upward. The 
difference is that the Shower looks like an arc of flame will the Mixer 
circles around Forte.

Barrier Wind & Forte Cyclone
Received From: Aircon Man
Description: Both weapons are identical. They both fire a shot that travels 
in a wave as it goes across the screen. This weapon can be used to destroy 
the walls that are in front of items such as extra lives.

Doppel Crash & Doppeler Attack
Received From: Komuso Man
Description: Crash basically 'punch' the enemy. Attack will split Forte into 
four mini beings that can hurt enemies by touching them. You can remain in 
this state by keeping the button held down and can move through walls.

Time Switch & Time Bomb
Received From: Clock Men
Description: They both freeze the enemies. You can't fire any shots while 
using the weapon.

7. Thanks

I'd like to thank the following sites:

www.mmhp.net
This was the first site I found that had a list of all Megaman/Rockman games. 
It was also where I found out about this game.

megaman.retrofaction.com
www.megaman-x.com

Both of wich are great MegaMan sites.

Finally, I'd like to thank

gamefaqs.com

For hosting my FAQ. 

