Virtua Fighter Colors Guide
For the Sega 32X
Version 1.1 (11 August 2006)
By ProTect (e-mail: protectiam@yahoo.com)

Copyright (c) 2006 ProTect

The game Virtua Fighter (hereafter referred to as VF) and all VF characters
are copyrights of Sega.

I do not claim any of the VF characters as my intellectual property in any
way. My contribution is solely the organization of VF's colors into one
guide.

This guide is mine, ProTect's. Do not post it to public forums without my
permission. Do not in any way claim it as your own.

DO NOT rewrite it and pass it off as your Colors Guide for another game!

Plagiarism is a very serious crime. It is intellectual theft.

----------CONTENTS----------

Guide Disclaimers
Contents
Purpose of This Guide
What is in This Guide?
What is Not in This Guide?
Explanation of Colors
Colors by Character
 Akira Yuki
 Pai Chan
 Lau Chan
 Wolf Hawkfield
 Jeffry McWild
 Kagemaru
 Sarah Bryant
 Jacky Bryant
 Dural
Color Modifier Codes
My Favorite Colors
Version History
Credits

----------PURPOSE OF THIS GUIDE-----------

This guide is a collection of all of VF's colors into one document.

----------WHAT IS IN THIS GUIDE?----------

The guide only contains the 8 colors for each 32X VF character.

----------WHAT IS NOT IN THIS GUIDE?----------

The guide does not contain move lists, strategy, or any other useful
information of that sort.

----------EXPLANATION OF COLORS----------

Each character has 8 colors, a default color, an alternate color, and 3
variations on each of these. The default color is used when you select a
character with any button. The variations on the default color are accessed by
pressing up when selecting the character with the A, B, or C button. The
alternate color is usually used when both players choose the same character,
and can also be accessed by pressing down when selecting the character with
the start button. The variations on the alternate color are accessed by
pressing down when selecting the character with the A, B, or C button.

I know for a fact there are no more colors than this, because I hacked color
modifier codes for the game in the Kega Fusion emulator (see below for these
codes), and values beyond the "Down + C" color give you a transparent
character.

----------COLORS BY CHARACTER----------

AKIRA YUKI

Default: Dark gray gi, white headband, white undershirt, red wrist guards
and belt
Alternate (Down + Start): White gi, white headband, no undershirt, black wrist
guards and belt
Up + A: Red gi, white headband, white undershirt, red wrist guards and belt
Down + A: Light gray gi, white headband, no undershirt, black wrist guards
and belt
Up + B: Green gi, white headband, white undershirt, red wrist guards and
belt
Down + B: Purple gi, white headband, no undershirt, black wrist guards and
belt
Up + C: Blue gi, white headband, white undershirt, red wrist guards and belt
Down + C: Brown gi, white headband, no undershirt, black wrist guards and
belt

PAI CHAN

Default: Blue outfit and hat with orange trim, red belt
Alternate (Down + Start): Pink outfit and hat with yellow and gray trim, black
belt
Up + A: Pea green outfit and hat with red trim, red belt
Down + A: Orange outfit and hat with red and black trim, black belt
Up + B: Purple outfit and hat with white trim, orange belt
Down + B: Dull green outfit and hat with orange and magenta trim, magenta
belt
Up + C: Lavender outfit and hat with yellow trim, green belt
Down + C: Light gray outfit and hat with green and blue trim, blue belt

LAU CHAN

Default: Red jacket with black sleeves and pants, yellow and green trim,
yellow belt
Alternate (Down + Start): Brown jacket, blue pants, black and green trim,
black belt
Up + A: Purple jacket with black sleeves and pants, yellow and red trim,
yellow belt
Down + A: Blue jacket, red pants, black and orange trim, black belt
Up + B: Green jacket with black sleeves and pants, yellow and red trim,
yellow belt
Down + B: Pea green jacket, blue pants, black trim and belt
Up + C: Brown jacket with black sleeves and pants, yellow and green trim,
yellow belt
Down + C: Tan jacket, red pants, black and dark purple trim, black belt

WOLF HAWKFIELD

Default: No shirt, purple shorts with white and red trim, blue and red
shoes, red wrist guards
Alternate (Down + Start): White tanktop, gray shorts and boots with white
trim, white wrist guards
Up + A: No shirt, pea green shorts with white and red trim, blue and red
shoes, red wrist guards
Down + A: Light blue tanktop, blue shorts and boots with light blue trim,
light blue wrist guards
Up + B: No shirt, magenta shorts with white and red trim, blue and red
shoes, red wrist guards
Down + B: Gray tanktop, red shorts and boots with gray trim, gray wrist
guards
Up + C: No shirt, orange shorts with white and red trim, blue and red shoes,
red wrist guards
Down + C: Yellow tanktop, hunter green shorts and boots with yellow trim,
yellow wrist guards

JEFFRY McWILD

Default: No shirt, gray pants, orange wrist guards and shoes
Alternate (Down + Start): Green tanktop, gray pants, no wrist guards or shoes
Up + A: No shirt, blue pants, orange wrist guards and shoes
Down + A: Yellow tanktop, green pants, no wrist guards or shoes
Up + B: No shirt, brown pants, orange wrist guards and shoes
Down + B: White tanktop, red pants, no wrist guards or shoes
Up + C: No shirt, dark red pants, orange wrist guards and shoes
Down + C: White tanktop, gray pants, no wrist guards or shoes

KAGEMARU

Default: Blue uniform, red belt
Alternate (Down + Start): Black uniform, yellow belt
Up + A: Orange uniform, blue belt
Down + A: Dull blue uniform, black belt
Up + B: Purple uniform, white belt
Down + B: Red uniform, black belt
Up + C: Green uniform, red belt
Down + C: Gray uniform, yellow belt

SARAH BRYANT

Default: Black top and pants
Alternate (Down + Start): Black bikini top and shoes, blue pants
Up + A: Red top, black pants
Down + A: Black bikini top and shoes, white pants
Up + B: Green top, black pants
Down + B: Purple bikini top and shoes, black pants
Up + C: Blue top, black pants
Down + C: Black bikini top and shoes, red pants

JACKY BRYANT

Default: Dark red tanktop and pants, white gloves
Alternate (Down + Start): Black tanktop and pants, white gloves
Up + A: Green tanktop and pants, white gloves
Down + A: Bright red tanktop and pants, white gloves
Up + B: Blue tanktop and pants, white gloves
Down + B: Dull blue tanktop and pants, white gloves
Up + C: Olive tanktop and pants, white gloves
Down + C: Purple tanktop and pants, white gloves

DURAL

Default: Silver Dural
Alternate (Down + Start): Gold Dural
Up + A: Blue Dural
Down + A: Yellow Dural
Up + B: Green Dural
Down + B: Purple Dural
Up + C: Copper Dural
Down + C: Red Dural

----------COLOR MODIFIER CODES-----------

These codes were hacked in the Kega Fusion 32X emulator. I do not know if they
work in other emulators, or if there was in fact any kind of cheat device for
the actual 32X console you can use these on (I've never heard of one).

FF8408:000? Color Modifier P1
FF8409:000? Color Modifier P2

To use these codes, put them into your emulator, and replace the ? with any
value from 0 to 7. If you want a specific color, they are listed in this guide
in the same order they appear in the code, with 0 being the default color, 1
being the alternate, 2 being Up + A, etc., up to 7, which is Down + C.

For a rather surreal experience, you could replace the ? with a number greater
than or equal to 8. You could also take certain mind-altering drugs. I'm not
necessarily recommending either one, but it could be fun, if you're into that
kind of thing.

----------MY FAVORITE COLORS-----------

This is a list of my favorite color for each character.

Akira Yuki: Down + B (purple)
Pai Chan: Up + A (pea green)
Lau Chan: Up + A (purple)
Wolf Hawkfield: Up + A (pea green)
Jeffry McWild: Down + C (gray)
Kagemaru: Down + B (red)
Sarah Bryant: Up + A (red)
Jacky Bryant: Up + A (green)
Dural: Alternate (gold)

Good job, whoever made the Up + A colors! They're almost all my favorites. Or
maybe the designers got together and decided they'd all make the Up + A colors
the best ones on the characters they're working on. I could see that happening
too.

----------VERSION HISTORY-----------

1.1 (11 August 2006) - I said in the last version I didn't know how to select
the alternate color. This was true, at the time. But now, with a little more
experimentation, I discovered that it is very simply Down + Start. Sometimes I
overlook the most obvious things. So this version corrects that. I also
included color modifier patch codes to use in emulators, and rearranged the
order the colors are listed in to reflect the actual coding used by the
programmers (default, alternate, default 2, alternate 2, etc.). Added Dural to
the list of characters. Also added the "my favorite colors" section, about
which I'm sure everyone will be thrilled.

1.0 (7 December 2002) - This is the original version, and the one that has
been on GameFAQs for 3 years. But there was one small mistake....

----------CREDITS----------

I, ProTect, wrote this. I am known as "BustSeishiro" on GameSpot.
Sega originally created VF.
The VF characters belong to Sega.
