       The Dame Was Loaded
                          

The Dame was Loaded is made by Beam International Pty Ltd.
This walkthru is based on the Australian PC CDROM release (which I   
believe
is identical to the US CDROM release and probably identical to the   
Philips
CD-I version)

JULY 29th

You start at your desk. The wooden box to your right is a storage   
location
I didn't find a use for the ring inside, but you can store other things   
in
here. On your desk is a picture of Angela, a camera, and a fountain pen.
The typewriter is your control panel.
Take the picture of Angela.

Click on the left side of the screen, where the cursor turns into an   
arrow.
This is your partner Ralph Spencer. Talk to him and he'll suggest a few
things, mentioning Jake's.
Grab a cigarette from the pack at the front of Ralph's desk.
There's also a plunger hanging from the sink that can be taken, as well   
as
a dirty postcard - neither were really needed. Look at the calendar above   

sink - today's date.

You have to go out the front door, where the landlord is waiting. He   
wants
$150 (see your online notes), but you can stall him by giving him only   
$50.
This leaves you with $64.95, and you'll need to raise the rest within 7
days or you get kicked out (which won't necessarily keep you from   
winning).
But, you'll also have to spend money during the course of the case, so   
you'll
need more than just $100.

Exit out the front door (or back) and Anger goes to his car. The horn and   

radio work here, but what's really important is the glove compartment and   

the trunk latch. By clicking on the trunk latch to the left of the radio,   

Anger goes back to the car trunk - a place where you can store things   
(take
what you want to put into the trunk out of your inventory first).
By clicking on the glove compartment, Anger opens his map. When you start   

the game, Scott knows about these locations:

first map page:
 Anger's office
 Mac's Barber Shop
 Meg's Diner
 Police Station (Officer Denton)
 Newspaper Office (Frankie)
 
second map page:
 Jake's Joint
 Boarding House (forget going here, it's just for reference)

third map page:
 Client (forget going here until the end of the game)

If you click on the map where nothing is marked, you go back to the car   
view.
When you're in the car, you can step back outside (to where you just   
were) by
moving the arrow to the left side of the screen, near the steering wheel.

Open the map and click on the Barber Shop to drive there

Barber Shop  (12:30 pm)
  Read the paper on the bench:
     Mayor Announces New Crime Reform
  Click on chair to get a shave
    note the comment about Periwig (a race horse) and the phone call
      (Mac is a bookie)
  Note that you can grab the hair on the floor here. You don't need it
     for awhile, so don't bother.
  Mac is very closed-lip; asking questions about the case will get you   
nowhere.
  Go to ......

Meg's Diner ( 1:00 pm)
  Click on the menu and choose the donuts.
  Click on the coffee to drink it and the donuts to eat the first donut.
    Your next stop is the Police Station, so hold onto that second donut.
  Click on the receipt in the upper left corner to pay the bill
  Go back to the counter view. I saw no value to leaving a tip, so just
  Go back to the car and drive over to ....
     

Police Station (1:45 pm)
   Ask about Dan Klein - never heard of him
   Ask about Angela Donald
   Give picture of Dan Klein to Denton
      Dan Klein is known around town as Dan Small (Klein...Small..get   
it?)
  Ask about Dan Small and Denton gets testy
  Give donut to Denton and he leaves the room to get some coffee
  Grab the raid roster in the box on the right
 Clubs to be raided on August 1...including Jake's "Dog Alley" club
 Be sure roster is in inventory before Denton comes back
  When he returns, ask Denton about Dan Small again
     low life, hangs around with bad crowd
  Head out and go to ....

Newspaper Office ( 3:00 pm)
   Ask Frankie about Dan Small and Angela Donald - no real info
   Click on back door (the morgue)
      Ask morgue about Dan Small - no info

Go back to office
NOTE: Whenever Scott drops his hat, pick it up. If you fail to do this
later in the game, you'll pay for it with his life.

At 6:00 pm, head to Jake's Joint ("Dog Alley")
   You start with Jake's "speakeasy" door.
   Knock on it to get Jake to come to the door.
   Do Jake a favor and give him the raid roster from the Police Station.
   Inside, you meet your poker buddies:
        G-G,
        Mickey
        Red Randall
   This is where you can earn money, by playing poker.
   This is also where you can get info about what's going on around
   town - but you have to play a round of poker to ask a question.
   To start a poker game, Click on your wallet and drop a buck into
     the pile of cash on the table.
  After a round, ask about Dan Small and you learn a new name - Freddi   
Creel
  After the next round, ask about Freddi Creel - crushed in crusher.

When done, head back to the office and go to sleep on the couch


Day 2 -
   7:00 am
   Barber
       read paper - heat wave
       get shave - Mac mentions Creel
   

 Diner
        get donut

 Newspaper
    Ask morgue about Freddi Creel - killed on June 15
       You learn about O'Brian's Foundry, Thumbs McKenzie, and
           Creel's widow Louise Creel
    Ask morgue about Thumbs McKenzie
       Pal of Freddy's, currently in the jail

    Ask Frankie about
       Louise Creel - closed-mouth


Police Station
    Ask about Freddi Creel
    Ask about Thumbs McKenzie - caught at Creel's murder site.


Go to Louise Creel's apartment (map 2)
   Click on door knocker
   Ask Mrs. Creel about
      Freddi - doesn't know what he did for a living
      Thumbs - said Freddi owed him money
      Dan Small - don't like him. Associate of husband.
                 She then asks who hired Scott
      Angela Donald - Louise Creel's sister, different fathers.
                      They didn't like each other

   Give Louise Angela's picture
   Give Louise Dan Klein's picture

   Move cursor to the left side so Scott can look at the room
NOTE: This is going to be a timed event, so you have to be (reasonably)   
quick

   On the fireplace mantle is a reddish blob that is a decanter of liquor
   Click on it and Louise will leave.
   Go back to the couch view and open her purse on the couch
       She'll notice if most things are gone, but you can grab a hairpin
   Exit the screen and quickly go back to the left room view.
   Grab the painting above the fireplace and you'll find a safe.
   Click on the safe to get a close-up view, then click on the screen
      bottom to go back.
   Click on the painting again to put it back.
   Click on the crystal cabinet to the left of the fireplace.
   If you open it now, you'll get caught.
   Go back and wait for Louise to come back.

   Once she leaves,
   Click on the crystal closet and use the hairpin on the lock.
   Grab the brown box in the back and exit the closeup.
   Put box on the small cigarette stand to the left of the crystal   
closet.
      Note the background where Louise is standing.
   Put the box back in the cabinet and wait until Louise comes back
   She'll check her bag but won't notice the missing hairpin.

  (alternately, to get to the cigar case or into the safe (once you have   
the
   combo, you can go back and talk to your partner Ralph - he'll offer to   

   call her (automatically) next time you visit, to keep Louise out of   
the
   room longer).

   You now know about a bank - The First National.
   Ask Louise about the diamond robbery there.

   Exit and head to....

Jail (map 3)
   Thumbs will dummy up, until you give him the cigarette
   Ask about
       Dan Small - he, Freddi, and Thumbs pulled a job together
       First National - might know something about that.
                        Find Dan Small and we'll have a chat
      Freddi - tried to chisel me out of my part of the loot.
               Said to meet him, but he was dead when I got there.
      Louise - sister of Angela
      Thumbs - I was set up

   Give Thumbs the photo of Dan
   Give Thumbs photo of Angela - Dan's girl

   Exit. So....who really did kill Freddie Creel and why?

Foundry closes at 4:30 - I was too late

Police Station
   Ask about First National - no clues, and a lot of diamonds

Exit and open trunk
   Get the tire iron out of the trunk.

After 6 pm Jake's Joint
   Ignore Jake but play poker.
   Ask about
       First National - we don't know nothing about that
       Thumbs - Said he had a score to settle.
       Give picture of Dan - they all call him Dan Small instead of Dan   
Klein

   Go back to office and sleep on couch

New Day

   Head out to the Foundry (you lose $1)
   Click on reddish lever on two bronze disks on left of cage
      this is the lever for triggering the crusher
      NOTE: Do NOT operate this unless crusher cage is closed!
   Click on the cage to open the crusher
   On the bottom of the crusher is a loose board that can be examined.
     You'll see something red.
     Click on it and you see that Scott's fingers can't reach it
       You need something long and thin.
     Try the tire iron....too thick.
   But, exit the close-up
   Put the tire iron into the crusher, close the door and flip the   
switch.
   Open the cage, grab the flattened tire iron and use it to remove a   
pencil
     from that loose board.
   Go to car, put tire iron in trunk and get wrench if you don't have it

Palm Tree Motel (map 2)
    Ask clerk about Dan Small
    Show Dan's picture to clerk
    Give him $10 and his memory returns
       Dan was in room 11, about a month ago.
    Give him another $14 to pay Dan's bill and you can examine his   
belongings
       Take stethoscope
       Take picture of Dan and Angela - examine it once it's in your   
inventory
    Exit close-up and clerk says he knows something...but can't remember   
what
    Give him $2
        Another P.I - Carl Brewer - was asking around about Freddy.
    Click on keys behind clerk - room 11 is occupied.

    Go up stairs.
    Knock on room 11's door.
    Click on his face with your P.I's license
       (or use the camera from your desk).
    When you wake up (you get knocked out for 2 hours), the room is now
       unoccupied (if you use the camera, it's busted - it isn't needed   
later).

   You can either use the hairpin to enter the room, or pay for the key   
($2).
   Note that the hairpin can only be used three times before it will   
break.

Hotel Room 11
   Click on the light switch to the right of the closet (& below the   
painting)
   Something up in the lamp shade. Walk over to the left and move the   
bed.
   Now go back to the right and click on the ceiling lamp and you get a   
railway
   locker key #29B.

   Move the bed back and go to the left.
   Flip the switch to the right of the bathroom door.
   Go into the bathroom.
   The sink is stopped up - use the plunger from your office sink if you
      have it (not essential).
   Use the wrench on the pipe underneath the sink and you'll get a   
diamond.
   This ties Freddy in with the First National Bank diamond theft.

   Exit room, drop off key with clerk, and exit to car.
   Open map - you now have locations for Carl Brewer's office and Railway   



Railway Station
    Use locker key on 2nd door from the left, on the top.
    Inside you find a small book with some odd numbers and letters
       the last page is significant.
       F.C stands for Freddy Creel - this is his safe's combo.
       The combo is  FC: L-5 R-8 L-1  which translates to:
           Turn the lock left 5 times
           Then turn the lock right 8 times
           Then turn the lock left 1 times

   This locker can be used to store things, although there is a really
   good chance you could lose it all later. Nothing that will prevent you
   from finishing, though.

It wouldn't hurt to wait here, so you can check Louise Creel's door until   

she's not home (knock twice to be sure). Then you can use the hairpin on
the lock, and open the safe. Top open the safe, move the picture over the
fireplace, click on the safe to get close, and use the stethoscope on the   

safe. You should now have an arrow on either side of the safe dial.
Per Dan Small's notebook, click on the left side 5 times, then on the
right side 8 times and then once again on the left. Inside the safe is an   

insurance form on Freddy Creel.

This isn't germane to the case, but adds useful color on Louise's
personality - especially later.

Newspaper office
   Ask about Carl Brewer and you learn he's dead (Scott apparently   
already
      knew that)
   Ask about First National - held up by 3 men, diamonds never found.

   Ask morgue about
        Carl Brewer - last person to talk to him was his landlord
     First National - 3 goons held up bank & robbed them of diamonds.
                     Just as police showed up, so did 6 other armed   
goons.
                     These 6 were arrested and are now in jail.

   After you ask about First National, Frankie kicks you out.
   Waiting in the car are two goons (if you've seen safe and cigar box,
     and have found diamond).
   They take you to ....

The Warehouse
   When you wake up, click on the map to get a closer view.
   Click on it again to flip it over.
   When you wake up, send them somewhere.

   Once Dumb Charlie and Smart Charlie leave,
      Click on the step to stand up,
      Click on the step again to go forward.
      Examine the red box - a fire alarm that works by breaking the   
glass.
      Go forward twice more to get closer to the alarm (and glass!).
      Now click on the alarm button 3 times so Scott rocks close enough   
to
         break the glass.
      Click down at the bottom of the screen and you'll see glass.
      Click on the piece closest to his right hand.
      Take the crumpled map.
      Click on the brown box on the left and take a bottle of whiskey.
      Exit warehouse.

Office
   note from Louise.
   Ralph tells you that the case you were going to be on was given to
      Pinkerton's Agency, so you now have more time for your current   
case.
   However, there was a break-in here ...guess what's missing.
      Right - anything useful, like the diamond

5:45 pm Go to Louise's
   Her place has been ransacked - she says by Big Joel Jones.
     The cigar box is missing
     The safe is open (yep, those goons took Dan Small's book)
        the safe is empty
     NOTE: (if you had already cracked the safe, you know there was some
           jewelry _and_ a life insurance policy on Freddy Creel there).

   Click on the back door to go into....

Louise's Bedroom
   Get photo that spilled out of blue jewelry box in lower left
       Freddy and your poker buddy G-G. G-G is a gambler.
   Click twice on fur in back - silver fox fur
   Click twice on hat on closet - wide brimmed hat
   Click on yellow blobs on right side nightstand - Scott takes sewing   
kit

   Go back to main room and ask Louise about
     Big Joel Jones -  said he had unfinished business with Freddy.
                       Wanted to look around the apartment
     G-G - associate of Freddy's
     Dan Small - he was Freddy's friend
     Angela Donald - I don't know anything about her death.
                     Possibly related to this case
     First National - Don't know anything about diamonds
   Show her picture of G-G and Freddy

Jake's Joint
   Red Randall is missing from game
   Ask about
      Big Joel Jones:
         runs this town. A racketeer.
         1 in 3 crooks works for him...(notice where they look)
      Angela Donald - let her go, or you might join her
      First National - diamonds stolen and no one's found them
      Show 'em Freddy and G-G shot -

   go back to office and go to sleep.
   FROM NOW ON, ALWAYS PICK UP YOUR HAT WHEN IT FALLS OFF THE HATRACK


August 2

   When you awaken, you get kidnappers' note:
     they have Frankie and want diamonds within 5 days
   Put the ransom note in the desk box (you won't need it).
   Pick up fountain pen out of holder on left side of desk

Barber
   Read paper
      Thumbs is dead, killed by same 6 guys that showed up at bank
      after diamond heist.
   Grab some of the hair on the floor between the chair and Mac
   Get a shave - Mac comments on your bruises
      He gets a call betting on a horse called Periwig - odds are 28:1

Diner
   Get a donut

Police Station
   Answer "Diamonds" and Denton promised to have the warehouse checked   
out
  (the next time you come here, he'll say they found nothing at the   
warehouse)
  After giving him the donut, click on the box on the right
      List of raids of off-track betting shops, including Mac the   
Barber's
  When he comes back, ask Denton about
      Joel Jones - owns part of the force
      G-G  nothing
      Thumbs - Frankie's article got him killed.
  You get kicked out after asking about Thumbs

Newspaper office
   Click on drawer on right
       Click on large makeup container - Scott hides his bruises
       Grab gun and laundry ticket

   Click on phone to call the morgue
       Ask about Joe Jones - get address of Blue Angel club and mansion
       Ask again - has hunting cabin, but no address known
       Now that Frankie isn't here to stop you, ask about Angela Donald
           Angela was sole witness to arson of Sweet Dreams club, which
             burned down. The Blue Angel club built on same location.
       Ask about Frankie - went with a big guy and a little guy in a
           green sedan. Something about fresh mountain air.
           NOTE: If you know about the description of Angela's death from
                 Denton, I believe Scott will realize this is the same   
car
                 used when Angela was killed.
       1st National - diamonds stolen on June 15th.
           one bandit wore a brown jacket with leather patches.
           Man in brown had the diamonds.


 NOTE: If you broke into Carl Brewer's office,  you don't need to deal   
with the
laundry ticket

Here's the basic scenario for Brewer's office

   Carl Brewer's office
      Brewer's door is locked. If you ring the buzzer on the side of the
      door, you know he's not there.
      There's nothing in here you _need_ (you can find what you need   
later,
      somewhere else) and you'll have to use the hairpin to pick the lock   

       - the hairpin has a limited life of  3 uses.
      Inside are three items, including a tuxedo in the closet on the   
left
      (the other items might be useful, but I didn't need them)
    

However, I'm taking the alternate route, which involves getting the   
tuxedo
via the laundry ticket so I didn't go into Carl's office.

  Look at the laundry ticket - the '10' is written in red ink.

Red Dragon Laundry (map 1)
   Give the man the laundry ticket and you get a dress.
      Note that there is also a tuxedo (although I can't
      figure out how you're supposed to know this) here and a
      yellow-green bellhop's. Go back to car.

Mickey (middle poker player) is in the car
   Both G-G and Red have been nervous since this case started
   Ask about
      Joel Jones - owns cops. Has two goons: Smart Charlie and Dumb   
Charlie.
      G-G - very jumpy. Been asking about you
      Red Randall - Don't trust him
      1st National - No one's tried to sell them yet
      Thumbs - Thumbs & company heard about diamonds and pulled heist
               before other gang could.

Office
   Click on closet and put dress in there.
   Click on the dress and choose the left icon - Wear.
     Scott finds Frankie's notebook and learn about the Blue Angel Club.
   Take the dress.

   Talk to Ralph - I played the second choice
       (I don't know if first choice is really an option, but it might   
be).

   Put Frankie's notebook in storage - you won't need it again.


Red Dragon Laudry
   Give back the dress - you get Ticket 10 again (and lose a quarter).
   

Newspaper
    Put ticket on desk.
    Fill your fountain pen with the red ink in the middle bottle on the   
right
    Click on the ticket with the pen and choose 20 - the tuxedo
       (I'm cheating here, because I've know I need it for the Blue Angel   

    Click on the glue bottle in the upper left with the hair from Mac's
      and you make and wear a mustache

Red Dragon Laundry
    Give ticket 20 and get tuxedo

Blue Angel Club 4:40 pm
   Old location of Sweet Dreams nightclub
   Closed
   If you wait until 7 pm and then go back in, you can get in the back.
      With no moustache, you get punched out. If you have the mustache   
on,
      you don't get hit but if you don't have the tux on or didn't have a
      shaved that morning you're told to leave. For now, just leave.
      

   If you go back to the office before 5 pm, Ralph leaves and is shot out   
in
     the alley, telling you with his dying breath that he was shot by   
someone
     wearing a brown jacket with leather patches. You can take his gun   
and
     keys, but do it quick before the cops get you as they'll get mad if   
they
     find a gun on you. If you learned about the 1st National diamond   
heist
       info at the police station, Scott might link the brown coat.

   If you stay away from the office, then two policemen tell you about   
Ralph
     being gunned down when you return - you'll get his keys, but not his   

     gun (which you don't need). Either way, you spend two hours at the
     police station.
     

   Back at the office, Scott guzzles down the whiskey bottle and passes   
out.

August 3

   Go to the closet view and click on it. Put the tux in the closet and
     try to wear it - the trousers need to be stitched up.
   Using the sewing kit from Louise's, it's a snap.
   But, since it's morning, he can't wear the tux.
   Exit the closeup and look at Ralph's desk.

   Use Ralph's keys on the green filing cabinet (once).
   Look up:
      Angela - singer at Sweet Dreams, which burned down on June 15th.
               Red-headed man left club via back door before fire.
               On June 18th, a green sedan with 2 men in it shot Angela.
      

Barber
   Read paper - Ralph's death
   Ask about Ralph
   Give Raid Roster to Mac
   Although you're wearing mustache, get a shave (or you won't get into
     Blue Angel Club)
   Get more hair off the floor

Police Station
   Ask about Ralph - goes to get file on Angela
   Click on the evidence box
      Click on the matches - Sweet Dreams matches
      Click on paper - tenement fire in building owned by Joel Jones.
                       Red-haired man seen standing around, enjoying the   
fire.
                       One of the bodies was Mickey Murphy, your poker   
friend.
      Grab lump of charcoal at bottom of box

   When Denton comes back with file
      3 .44 caliber bullets found in wall.
      Witness saw woman, wearing silver fox fur and large hat, running
         from the scene.

   Ask about
      Mickey Murphy - gas bomb set off fire
        

Newspaper
   Make another mustache (makeup is still ok)
   Ask copyboy (morgue) about:
      Mickey Murphy - died in Aug 4th fire
        

Office 6 pm
   Wear tux by clicking on it and choosing the left icon ( if you haven't
     used the sewing kit from Louise's back room, do that now)
   With your tux, makeup, and mustache, go to

Blue Angel Club.
   Wait until 7pm (when it turns dark) and exit the car and you'll get   
in.


Back Stage
   Open Janitor closet and wear janitor's jumper suit
   Click on dark, burnt area to left of door if you didn't get any
      charcoal in the evidence box at the police station. You can get a
      piece here.
   Click on office door

Club Office
    NOTE: You have only a limited time before you will be caught -
          if you're fast, you get away _Scott_ free  (pun intended!)
   Here you meet the esteemed Joel Jones
   Note 3 pictures behind desk - one is a cabin called Pinewood
   Open filing cabinet
        Angela - Sweet Dreams was losing money
        Red Randall - receipt for "consulting" work as a wrecker - keep   
this!
        G-G - real name: Ashley
        Francine - a file of all her stories on him
        Thumbs - wasn't on Jones' payroll.
   Click on desk
       Use charcoal on white notepad - racing tip. Take it.
   Exit Club and go to

Jake's Joint
   G-G's there by himself, on the run. Will sell info for right price
   Ask about anything and he clams up.
   Give him racing tip from Club Office - you're now set up to meet him
      here tomorrow night.

Office
   As always, be sure to pick up the hat when it falls.
   This time, it will be shot at.
   Remove tux by clicking on the inside of the closet, then take it.

Day 7 Aug 6
   Makeup and mustache have worn off

9:00 am Newspaper
   Ask copyboy about Joel Jones again now that you know more about the
      cabin.
   If you get to the newspaper early enough (it takes 6 hours), you'll
      have enough time to find the address for the cabin. Else, come   
back.
   When you do, you'll now have a new address on map 3.

Try Louise Creel's  4:30 pm
   Ask about
     Angela -
     Frankie-

6 pm Jake's Joint
   G-G stays just long enough to tell you that there's someone at the   
Hotel
     Seville, room 78 that you want to talk to.  (now have Seville on map   
1).

Hotel Seville
   If you try to get in without a mustache, the manager calls the house
     detective and you're thrown out. If you have a mustache or no   
makeup,
     you are asked to leave. You must be clean-shaven, have makeup to   
cover
     your bruises, and be wearing a bellhop's uniform (I could have   
cheated
     and got it earlier, but Scott had no reason to want it so I didn't
     get it).

Go to sleep back at the office

Aug 5

Red Dragon Laundry
    Give tux back to man and you get dress
    Give dress back to get another Ticket 10

Barber
    Get shave (don't get hair to make mustache)

Newspaper   9:00 am
    Use makeup again
    Put ticket on desk and use pen on it - choose #18 - bellhop
    NOTE: If you rescue Frankie before changing the laundry ticket,
          you can still sit at her desk _sometimes_. You'll have to
          keep checking her office until she's not there. And the only
          place I found to modify the ticket is her desk.

10:00 am Head to Big Joel's Cabin
    Drive to cabin - car crashes but you end up there anyway.
    Click on wall to right of door to change your view
    Click on Frankie's hair and you get hairpin and pick locks
    Click below fireplace, on floor, to turn view back
    Grab the bear trap on wall just to left of window, then use the trap
       on the window
    Quickly, click to right of the door so that you're hidden from view
       when the goon comes in within a second or two later
    Big Joel is arrested

Now 5:15 Go to Red Dragon Laundry
    Give the counter man Ticket 18 and you get the bellhop uniform

Back to office (save Temp)
    Knock at door - it's the landlord looking for his $100. If you don't
       have it, or you blow him off, you'll be told you're being thrown   
out
       in 3 days (no loss). I didn't have enough money in either of the   
two
       games I played.

At 6:00 pm, go to Jakes Joint
    Red Randall is here
    Ask about Red Randall - he spouts off and says there's no evidence
    Give him Red's Receipt and he's arrested

Back at office, it's now 8 pm.
   Put bellhop uniform in closet, then click on it to wear it.

Hotel Seville
    In lobby, without mustache but with shave, bellhop uniform, and   
makeup
      to cover the bruises, you're given the passkey and head upstairs
    Use key on door's lock (above knob)

Hotel Room
   Once again, you have a limited time.
    Click on the closet on the left
       Click on the brown jacket twice
       If you were at office when Ralph got shot, you'll make
          connection to his murderer.
    Click on the nightstand in the lower right
       Click on Oregon directory - falls open to the Smalls
       Take postal receipt

    Click on nightstand on other side of bed just to note bullets
    Click on bathroom door

Bathroom
    You need to hide - click on curtain
    Now wait until curtain opens
       you'll first hear someone enter the apartment and then they'll
       come into the bathroom.
    When the curtain opens, quickly punch the guy in the face by
        clicking on his head (not body!).
       (If you do it wrong, he escapes and you get arrested)
    Use shaving kit (on wooden box next to tub) on man to discover he
        is really Freddy Creel
      

  Exit the hotel room
     Freddy Creel is booked on Dan Klein/Small's murder

  When Mrs Klein shows up
     I gave the money back
     Ask about
        Angela - you learn why Brewer was on the case.
        Dan -
        1st National - she leaves diamonds on floor, by desk

   Click on bottom of screen when done
   Change to view of desk/closet/couch and get box of diamonds

Go to car - Louise jumps in
   She can't be trusted - click on her door
   Quickly click on her purse to grab her gun
   Your call:
              is she unaware of what went on (click on the door)
              or part of the scheme (click on the steering wheel)?

   Either way, take the diamonds to Denton at the Police Station

   For me, the ideal ending was that Scott decides to take Denton's   
advice,
and go vacation up in Oregon.... near a former client.
If that's your choice, there's a map location for that.



Copyright 1996 by Dave Timoney. All rights reserved.
Permission is given by the author for distribution of this file for
non-profit means, as long as the file is un-modified. Further rights
of distribution require contacting the author.

