 
The Ammended Myst Walkthrough, by Phil Gross and Noj Beskin
Original by E. Conty
Version 2.0
 
Contact: ba02335@bingsuns.cc.binghamton.edu (philbo)
 
Here's an ammended version of the walkthrough. Originally posted by E
Conty (conty@cbnewsl.cb.att.com), who said he will ignore any
comments. I, on the other hand, will welcome comments, and will try to
keep the walkthrough up to date (at least for a while). I guess if you
are stuck, as opposed to reading this and spoiling your fun, you can
write me and I'll try to give you hints. Maybe. 
--philbo
 
This is a bare-bones description of how to complete Myst. But you
should use it only as a last resort. The true goal of the game is to
explore everything, and find all sorts of interesting details about
Achenar, Sirrus, and the world(s) you're in. The game can be
successfully completed without ever leaving the main island, but
that's no fun, is it?
 
ALL puzzles can be solved by exploring, trying things out, and using
plain common sense. If you find yourself trying a gazillion
combinations to solve a puzzle, you're doing something wrong.
 
 
 






(Extra lines to shield wandering eyes)











 




 
 MAIN ISLAND:
 
Pick up the note in front of the planetarium. As you explore the
island, you'll find that there are 8 marker switches in total: Pier -
Giant gears - Planetarium - Spaceship - Mall with small pool and
pillars - Brick building - Wooden shack - Clock tower Turn each marker
switch on (up) as you get to it. (Worry about the clock tower marker
later.)
 
In the pier, there is an entrance to an underground room. Go to the
projector, and turn it off by pressing the big button at the bottom.
Turn around. You'll notice a piece of paper on the wall to the left.
Press the green button on the upper left corner, which will reveal a
hidden control panel. Enter the number of switches "08", and press the
button to close the panel. Turn back to the projector, push the
button, and watch the man's message to Catherine.
 
In the library, each wall contains interesting items. Give the blue
and red pages to the corresponding books. Each brother wants more
pages. Read the 4 legible books in the book-case. You can ignore the
book with the wierd squares in it, you'll deal with it later. Jot
down any interesting diagrams from the others on your notebook. 

Look at the map next to the entrance. Each of the marker switches in
the island lights one specific group of buildings in the map. Grab the
tower and rotate it until it flashes red, then stop. There are 4 "red"
positions, each one of them corresponding to where one of the 4
available link books is hidden (ship, giant tree, gears, spaceship).
The paintings next to the book-case open and close the secret
passageway behind it. Go to the elevator, close the door, and press
the button to go into the tower. If you rotated the tower correctly,
the ladder with the "book" on it should show you where the book is
hidden, while the ladder with the "key" should lead you to the clue to
the puzzle that lets you get the book.
 
Ship: Go to the planetarium, turn the lights off (the switch is next
to the door), sit down on the chair, and click on the control panel.
Set each of the dates from the clue (Oct 11, 1984 10:04AM, Jan 17,
1207 5:46AM , and Nov 23, 9791 6:57 PM), and map the constellation
shown to one of the constellations in the Stoneship book. Go to the
pillars at the mall, and click on the appropiate symbols (leaf, snake,
and bug). The book is in the now resurfaced ship.
 
Tree: Go to the wooden house, and enter the combination for the safe
next to the door (7,2,4). Open the safe, get the match, and light it
with the matchbox. Turn around and light the pilot light below the
boiler. Turn the gas wheel all the way up (green icon). Wait until the
thumping sound stops, then turn the wheel all the way down (red icon),
and QUICKLY get out of the house and into the tree to the right of it
(see library map for location) before the "elevator" in the tree goes
underground. If you can't do it that quickly, don't turn the gas quite
all the way off. The book is down beneath the tree. If you went up in
the elevator, press the white button to your left. That releases the
steam and drops the tree down to the underground level.
 
Gears: Go to the clockhouse, enter 2:40 into the clock using the
wheels, then press the button. Go into the clock, and use the levers
to set the wheels to 2,2,1. HOLD either front lever down to rotate the
middle wheel only. Click on the vertical lever to your right to reset
the puzzle. The book is in the giant gears close to the pier.
 
Spaceship: Go to the brick building, set the generators to send
exactly 59 volts out (buttons 1,2,3,6,7,8 and 10 should do nicely. The
numbering order is on the wall as you leave the control room. In order
to figure out which button has which voltage, just hit them one at a
time). If you go over 59 volts, you will blow a fuse. There are two
electric towers to climb, one next to the brick building, one clearly
visible close to the spaceship, click down the breaker switches. Then
enter the spaceship. Play the notes from the Selenitic Age book in the
organ, and set the same notes in the controls of the ship. If you're
tone deaf, just count number of notes from the bottom. (8, 20, 23, 13,
and 6, respectively, including the bottom as one). Press the button
and the book will appear before you. 
 
 STONESHIP AGE: Go to the other half of the ship, up the stairs and
look through the telescope. Find where the lighthouse is. (135
degrees) 
 
Go to the umbrella and push the rightmost button to drain the
lighthouse. Go to the basement and drain the chest by opening and
closing the valve at the bottom. Go back to the umbrella and let the
lighthouse fill up again. Unlock the now floating chest, get the key,
and open the lighthouse. Crank up the generator and power the battery.
Note that the battery is slightly discharging, so move quickly! (If
the lights go out, go to the generator and crank it up some more.)
 
Go to the umbrella, press the middle button to drain the rock and go
inside. Go all the way down the tunnel, find the page for either of
the brothers, and explore a bit. You should find half of an important
note in the map drawer in Achenar's room (that's the messy room). The
entire note is given below.
 
Go back to the red-lined "panel" in one of the walls. Inside, you'll
find a compass rose, just like in the Stoneship book. Push the "SE"
button (the clue is 135 degrees, found with the telescope). This will
turn on the submersible's lights.
 
Drain the ship with the leftmost button and go in. Click on the desk
in the lower level, and the book leading back to Myst will pop up.
 

SELENITIC AGE: Find the 5 microphones (Water, Fire(thunder), Clock,
Crystal (flute), Wind), and turn each on. You'll also find the red and
blue pages at the "Crystal" and "Water" microphones, respectively.
 
Go to the microwave tower through the Wind tunnel, and aim each of the
five dishes in the right direction (use sounds, icons, and places as a
guide. The coordinate numbers are: Water:153.4, Fire: 130.3, Clock:
55.6, Crystal: 15.0, and Wind: 212.2). Push the sigma button. This
will give you the sound sequence to open the door near the spaceship.
(Crystal, Water, Wind, Fire, Clock) Go on in, get in the underground
craft and press forward. At each station, listen for a sound which
will indicate direction. If you miss it, press the button on the
speaker. The sounds are "plink" for north, "Bloooop" for W, "Plonk"
for S, and "Shhhh" for E (these sound names are approximations, so
give us a break) Combinations of these sounds indicate NE, SW, etc.
The sequence of directions to get to the Myst book is:
N,W,N,E,E,S,S,W,SW,W,NW,NE,N,SE. Get out, and find the Myst book.


MECHANICAL AGE:
 
The pages for the brothers are in secret rooms accesible from their
chambers. Explore next to the "throne" in each room.
 
Go to the "tube", and press the button in the hallway. The floor will
reveal a lower room. Go down there, and rotate the tube until the red
icon shows. Careful not to let the tube rotate past the red icon!
 
Go back out, and you'll see that the tube held an elevator. Press the
wall button again to close the floor, and enter the elevator. Press
the up button, then press the "middle" button and exit the lift before
it goes down. The building rotation controls are above the elevator.
 
Enter the rotation controls and rotate the tower to the other two
islands. They have the symbols for the control next to where you
entered the Age. (symbols below) Use the simulator in Achenar's room
to practice how to rotate the tower. The method we used was: Put the
left lever up one notch. Hold the right lever all the way up for about
7 seconds. Let go of the right lever, then quickly put the left lever
back down. Practice on the simulator until you get the timing right,
because you won't be able to see the orientation of the tower, just
some motion in the gears. Once the tower stops, it'll make a sound for
each of the four compass directions, the same sounds as for the
selenetic age, above.
 
The control panel next to where you entered opens the room where the
Myst link book is. The symbols are: 1) an O with the bottom cut out.
2) point down triangle, rectangle, point up triangle. 3) circle over
three triangles 4) left half circle, filled in. (These are easier to
spot than it sounds.)
 
WARNING: A bug in the game as released won't let you go to the island
with the last two codes. Get the fix from Sumex-aim.stanford.edu.


CHANNELWOOD AGE:
 
Go to the windmill and turn the water on with the faucet on the floor.
The pulldown lever is a red herring. Go back down and use the
"switches" in the pipeline to control the water flow to the first
elevator. (Not the one next to the staircase!) Climb in, close the
door, and use the lever to go up.
 
Up there, find the control to open/close the staircase. Go to the
staircase, climb down, open the door, and use the pipeline switches to
send water to the generator next to it. Climb back up the stairs, and
use the elevator there.
 
Find the rooms for both brothers (and Achenar's "temple"), their pages
are there. In Sirrus' room (the nice room), find the other half of
that note you found in the Stoneship Age.
 
Use the switches to turn on the lonely-looking generator close to
where you entered the world. Turn it on, and watch the catwalk appear
from the waters. Walk to the other side, down the other walkway, and
find the crank to extend the pipeline back to the main line. Use the
switches to turn on the elevator there, and climb up to find the Myst
book.
 
(If you're having some trouble figuring out where the water is going
in the pipelines, listen as you walk past them. If you can't hear the
noise of water, this section of the pipeline has no water. Also, you
could just trace the water from the windmill, checking every Y
junction as you pass.)
  
 
ENDGAME / DUNNY AGE:
 
When you return four pages to either brother, he'll give you the same
info: go to the library, pick the right-end book in the center shelf,
and look up diagram 158. Go to the chimney, press the button, enter
the diagram below on the plate, press the button again. You'll see the
green book (the Dunny Age), the blue page, and the red page.
 
Diagram 158 (click where there are Xes):
XXOOOOXX
OXXOXOXX
XOXOOOXX
XOOXOOXX
XXOOXXOO
XXXXXOXO
 
There are 4 endings: 
- give the last blue page (Achenar traps you) 
- give the last red page (Sirrus traps you) 
- go to Dunny without the yellow page (your own stupidity traps you) 
- go to Dunny with the yellow page (Dad goes back, destroys both
books, congratulates you, and asks you to stick around for further
adventures)
 
The yellow page is in the vault. To get to the vault, follow the
directions in the two halves of the note ("|" is the note break, the
first half is in Stoneship, the second half is in Channelwood) 
 
      Marker Switch | Vault Access 
             Island | of Myst
   The vault is loc | ated in very plain view on
    the island of M | yst and access can be 
      achieved very | easily if the simple 
 instructions are f | ollowed. First locate
 each of the marker | switches on the island.
  Turn every one of | these switches to the 
  "on" position. Th | en go to the dock, and,
as a final step, tu | rn the marker switch
        there to th | e "off" position.


Good luck, and Happy Mysting

